TRANSCRIPT: Amyloidosis
============================================================

Oh man, who doesn't love summertime? Days are longer, time moves slower, and nothing can beat those days spent on the farm. Am I right? Or am I Lloyd? Get it? Amaloid? Well, I mean, alright, whatever, I thought it was funny. Alright, let's get down to it. So in this sketch titled the Amaloid Animal Farm, we'll be covering the various forms of amaloidosis, including primary systemic amaloidosis, which will be shown on the right of the sketch where the house is at, and the cutaneous amaloidosis, likened amaloidosis, macular amaloidosis, and nodular amaloidosis, which will be shown in the yard on the left. We won't be discussing secondary amaloidosis, which is usually the result of some chronic inflammatory condition, such as ankylosis spondylitis, TB, dystrophic eb, muclewells, etc. You need to recall that amaloid is a group of disorders resulting from the deposition of proteins into tissue. This can either be primary systemic, localized cutaneous, or secondary. In the primary form, the protein is AL, which stands for amaloid-light chain, and is simply the light-chain component of immunoglobulins, usually the IgG lambda subtype. So let's add a railing to our porch with the rods shaped like Greek letter lambda. The reason for increased IgG lambda is an underlying plasma cell discreasure, or multiple myeloma. Unfortunately for us, Granny is gonna keep us fed. She baked some delicious plasma cell chocolate chip cookies, and put out some multiple myeloma m&Ms for us on the windowsill. But it wouldn't be that southern hospitality if she didn't also make us some delicious lemonade. The lemonade is to remind you to check an SPEP or UPEP to evaluate for monoclonal gamopathy's, or multiple myeloma, when making a diagnosis of primary amaloidosis. I like to think about primary amaloidosis and super amaloidosis, because the proteins are deposited throughout the skin and various structures, including the dermis, sweat glands, subcutus, vessels, and nerves. Because of this, there are lots of different cutaneous features that can manifest, but we'll only cover the highest yield with the various characters and hooks on the porch, starting with the flags on either side. Granny and pops have hung a flag with a sclerodermasheald on it to warn intruders that this house. Yeah, it's protected. And to help you also remember that extensive deposition of anything in the skin can result in sclerodermoid-like changes in the skin, and that's true for amaloidosis. Clinically, this can manifest with alopecia, cutus-vertises-gyrata-like changes, or even leaning faces. And while this may seem bad, it's not nearly as bad as the cardiac involvement, which carries the worst prognosis of all, hence why the second flag displays a broken heart on it. And clinic, however, you are more likely to see subtle changes, such as pinch-perpera or waxy papules, nodules, and plaques. Now, despite these changes being subtle, I'll tell you, Granny's bright purple eyeshadow? That is anything buts. This purple eyeshadow should remind you of the pinch-perpera due to minor trauma as a result of the amaloid deposition around blood vessels. These perpera can occur anywhere, but for the purposes of a test, they often show you a picture of the eyelids or periocular skin. I suppose we won't give her a hard time, though, for a choice of makeup, seeing that she is working really hard, churning that butter and washing clothes. Notice how the butter is formed a plaque on the top of the churn, and there's a big lump of it on the ground. This imagery is to help remind you of the waxy papules, nodules, and plaques. All that we use bubbles as a hook for vesicular bullies lesions, and in this case, the overflowing bubbles from her clothes bucket are simply to remind you that in rare cases, systemic amyloidosis may even become bullies. Too bad, Granny got distracted. Her hound dog is about to eat all that butter. Just check out his huge tongue in that wrinkly little face. Oh, he's so darn cute! Remember this hound dog's big tongue as a hook for macroglossia, another favorite coat of chrome for the boards, and his wrinkles are as a hook for wrinkling of the face, which can progress to lianine faces. Uh-oh, looks like Granny's arm. Oh, she's using the shock bracelet to keep him from eating the butter. This shock bracelet around the dog's wrist should serve as a reminder that carpal tunnel syndrome can also be seen. It's worth noting that when talking about primary cutaneous forms, the sketch progresses from lycan to macular to nodular, starting at the front and working backwards. But because nodular amyloidosis is due to AL deposition and has a small risk of progression to systemic amyloidosis, we've included the hooks for it right next to the porch. Notice the large mound of dirt in the yard. This mound is to remind you of the large nodules of nodular amyloidosis. Importantly, this form is associated with connective tissue diseases such as RA, scleroderma, and showgrins. We've included some large lago look and cinder blocks to remind you of connective tissue diseases, but you can also use the shield flag to remind you of scleroderma. Like primary cutaneous amyloidosis, deposition of amyloid can often be appreciated around the vessels, so we'll also include a red hose that resembles a blood vessel. The other localized cutaneous amyloidosis include lycan amyloidosis and macular amyloidosis, and are both due to keratin protein deposition, usually keratin 5. Recall from our sketch covering men's syndromes that lycan amyloidosis was depicted with an alligator, because I think that lycanified bumpy skin looks like alligator skin, and we've brought back that hook with one of the animals on this farm, an alligator. We've also brought back the modern man with his two swan and an apple to remind you that men type 2A can be associated with this form. It just so happens that this guy also is the idiotic grandson. Like an amyloidosis which is fairly common, and you've probably seen it, typically occurs on the lower legs, so let's include some red shin guards to represent this. And sad note, I mean, I really hope this guy doesn't think those shin guards are going to protect him from an alligator. Yikes. Anyways, behind him you have grandpa, stoic, determined, annoyed. He'll represent macular amyloidosis. All grandpa wants is to be left alone so that he can finish putting up his fence. Notice how he's wearing a fancy pearl snap western shirt with a pop of red on the upper back. The red part on his shirt represents the typical distribution of macular amyloidosis, occurring in the upper back. On histology, the amyloid deposits are found within the papillary dermis, and we've drawn the fence posts to resemble dermal papilla as a result. Last but not least, let's quickly review some of the stains for amyloid. We'll show these with the grandson's friend who resembles Mr. T. I pity that fool. Personally, I just like to lump all this together as one big hook. Mr. T. plain the bongos and wearing a violet crystal around his neck. This should remind you of thioflaventy, Congo red, and crystal violet. Okay, let's quickly sum up the sketch and go have some fun in the sun. This sketch covers primary amyloidosis and localized cutaneous amyloidosis. On the right are hooks for primary amyloidosis and on the left are hooks for localized cutaneous. Primary amyloidosis results from deposition of IgG lambda light chains, aka AL protein, as a result of an underlying plasma cell discreasure or multiple myeloma. This is shown by the Lambda railing, plasma cell chocolate chip cookies, and multiple myeloma M&M's. You need to check for an SPEP and or UPEP when making the diagnosis to evaluate for underlying disorder. Clinically, they can present with sclerodermoid changes, pinched perpera, bullis lesions, macroglossia, waxy papules and nodules, carpal tunnel, and or cardiac involvement, which of course carries the worst prognosis. Recall the sclerodermis shield, purple eyeshadow, bubbles, big tongue, butterclumps, shock bracelet, and broken heart. Nodular amyloidosis is generally skin limited, hence why it's in the yard, but it is due to AL deposition and can progress to systemic amyloidosis in around 7% of patients, so we've placed it next to the porch to help you remember this association. Notably, it's also associated with connective tissue disease as shown by the connective tissue blocks, and the deposition is prominent around blood vessels on histology, hence the red hose. The alligator and modern man standing in the yard are to remind you of lichen amyloidosis, which presents as like-kinified papules and plaques on the shins as shown by the shingards. There is an association with men type 2A, which is why we've used the guy from our men's sketch, and included a 2 swan eaten in apple. Grandpa in the background represents macular amyloidosis, which manifests with confluent or rippled hyperpigmented patches on the upper back or interscarpular region, just like the red part of his shirt. On histology of lichen amyloidosis, the protein is skin-derived keratin, usually keratin 5, and is located in the papillary dermis, so you can recall the fence posts arranged like dermal papillet. In general, amyloid can be stained with thioflavin tea, crystal violet and Congo red, so don't you forget about Mr. T wearing a violet crystal and playing the bongos. Well that's all folks, I hope you enjoyed the video, and if you want to help us make more, then send us your ideas and suggestions, and share dermed amonics with your friends. I'll catch you next time.
