TRANSCRIPT: Ataxia Telangiectasia
============================================================

Hello and welcome back. In today's sketch, we're taking you to your favorite local Burlesque bar. Well, I mean it might be your only local Burlesque bar. I hope you've got some cash because it's showtime. This sketch will cover one of the primary immunodeficiencies, attack, or AT for short. It can also be known as Louis Bar syndrome. So this sketch will obviously take place at Louis Burlesque bar. But before we get started, you gotta realize that this show, it ain't free. Good thing they've got this ATM right here so you can pay the cover charge. This ATM is to remind you that a taxia-tilangictasia results from an autosomal recessive mutation in the ATM gene. The ATM gene codes for a serine-3anine protein kinase, which acts to regulate cell cycle control and response to double-stranded DNA breaks. Now speaking of breaks, check out this breakout Burlesque star swinging on these oddly-shaped double-heel-access ribbons. This is a hook to remind you of the double-stranded DNA breaks resulting from loss of function of the ATM gene product. Well, she obviously knows that she's the best dancer in here and she's rocking her number one foam finger as she swings from the ribbons. Hey you go girl! Is it just me or does she look a little a-taxic? I mean, swinging on nothing but silk ribbon can't be easy. This a-taxic dancer with the recurrent number one foam finger is to remind you that cerebellar trunkal a-taxia is usually the first clinical manifestation of a-taxia-tilangictasia and is typically first noticed when the child begins to walk. However, the diagnosis of a-taxia-tilangictasia often goes undiagnosed until cutaneous features present. Notably, like the name implies, these patients develop ocular cutaneous-tilangictasia around six years of age. The most common location for these-taxia-tilangictazies and the order in which they appear are the peri-ocular, peri-orbital, and oricular. We've chosen to represent this with our wise monkey statues on the shelf with one covering his eyes, mouth, and ears. See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil. A good quote to live by at the Louis Burlesque Bar. Alright, fun. Maybe you can see a little evil. Hey I won't tell. Oh, who's this creepy old dude who just showed up? He has definitely been hanging out in the bar for way too long. It looks like he's literally wasting away with his gray hair and sunken in face. This is to remind you that progeric changes of the skin and hair are found in nearly 90% of a-taxia-tilangictasia patients. Subcutaneous facial fat is lost early and the facial skin tends to become atrophic and sclerotic. Gray hair often appears in young children and may become diffusely gray by adolescence as a result of abnormalities in meiosis and telomere maintenance, secondary to inability to repair DNA and thus cause premature agent. It's no doubt that he's here to party. He's taken a nice long puff of his cigarette to impress the Burlesque dancer. Alright, well that wasn't too smooth. He totally failed the smoke cloud trick and is now coughing everywhere. This is to remind you that chronic or recurrent, cyanopulmonary infections occur in over 80% of a-taxia-tilangictasia patients with the most common cause of death being bronchi ectasis with respiratory failure, occurring at an average age of 20. Alright, so not only was it a smoke-ring trick, uh, lame, he's also wearing a shirt that's just filthy with red-brown stains. Ugh, buddy, not a good look. Anyway, these stains are meant to represent the non-infectious, cutaneous granulomas that tend to be chronic and often ulcerate cause in pain and significant morbidity. I'm gonna like how this creepy grandpa seems to be making everyone a little bit uncomfortable. He is even trying to offer people candy. The candy is to remind you that there's also an increased risk of diabetes in at patients. And just when I thought this guy couldn't get an creepier, it looks like he dropped his coin purse and it disturbingly resembles a scrotum. But if I'm honest, I must admit, carrying around a scrotum purse? Hey, that's pretty balzy, right? This scrotum coin purse is to remind you that a taxia-tilangic tasia patients may also have hypogonatism. I don't know about you, but after meeting a guy like that, whoo, I could definitely use a drink. Unfortunately for us, it looks like the bartender is serving up a dirty martini. Shaken, not stirred. The house vodka choices do seem a little weird though. The bottles on the shelves say AST, ALT and ALK. Must be one of those generic brands. Anyway, the dirty martini with the AST, ALT and ALK bottle are to remind you that about half of patients with a taxia-tilangic tasia will have elevated liver enzymes. Nothing like a dirty martini and a cigarette in preparation for the big show. This dude has got so much going on, I didn't even notice his haircut. Looks a little cerebellum-like, right? This cerebellum haircut is a hook to remind you that these patients also often have cerebellar atrophy on MRI. This makes sense, given the cerebellar trunkole taxia and other neurologic symptoms that patients can have, such as coriopathetosis, myoclonus and ocular motor signs. These are due to progressive neurologic deterioration. On a brighter note, it looks like tonight's show might be beach themed. Take a look at the crab decoration and bowl of refreshing limes. Now, if you've been tuning into our sketches, you know that this is our recurring cancer crab and the limes are our recurring lymphoma limes. This is to remind you that these patients have an increased risk of malignancy, especially leukemias and lymphoma in adolescents. Note that this is because defects in DNA repair means chromosomeal breaks, fragments, gaps and translocations are common. For instance, rearrangements of chromosome 7 and 14 are particularly common, and also testable fodder, and may predict the development of lymphoma. To remind you of this, we've decorated the wall with a 7-boomerrain, a T, a number 1 toward and a number 4 flag near the bowl of lymphoma limes. Ho ho, outfit change! Our burlesque dancer has changed from a black bra to red for the open and act. This is to remind you that patients with a taxia, telenja, tasia and female carriers of the mutated ATM gene also have an increased risk of developing breast cancer. Oh shoot, I almost made the end of the sketch without going over the number 1 rule of going to a burlesque bar. Always wash your hands. Look at the sign, they aren't playing around. This washer hand sign is to remind you that a taxia, telenja, tasia is one of the primary immunodeficiencies. Immunologic defects in patients with AT have decreased serum levels of IgE, IgA and IgG, as well as defects in cell mediated immunity with lymphopenia. IgE tend to be the lowest, occurring in around 80% of patients. To remind you of this, we've placed a wall shelf with these glasses falling off of it that resemble the letter E. Now, let's quickly sum up this sketch before the big show starts. This sketch takes place at Louis Burlesque Bar and we're covering a taxia, telenja, tasia, aka Louis Bar Syndrome. The ATM is to remind you that a taxia, telenja, tasia results from an autosomal recessive mutation in the ATM gene, which encodes for a searing 3-anine protein kinase that regulates cell cycle control and responds to double-chranded DNA breaks. The Burlesque dancer swinging on the helix-esque ribbons is to remind you of DNA breaks. Furthermore, she's looking a little atyxic and holding her number one foam finger, which is to remind you that cerebellar trunkole taxia is usually the first clinical manifestation of AT. Our wise monkey statues on the shelf, one covering his eyes, mouth, and ears, are to remind you that these patients develop telenja tasia's in peri-ocular, peri-oral, and irregular distribution, and typically they appear in that order. The creepy old guy at the bar with the gray hair and sunken face serves as a hook to remind you that progeric changes of the skin and hair are found in nearly 90% of a taxia-telenja tasia patients. Furthermore, his coffin from his failed smoke cloud trick is to remind you that chronic or recurrent cyanopulmonary infections occur in over 80% of a taxia-telenja tasia patients, with the most common cause of death being bronchi-ectasis, with respiratory failure. These super-gross red-brown stains on his shirt are meant to represent the non-infectious cutaneous granulomas that may also occur in AT, and the candy that he has creepily passing out is to remind you that there's also an increased risk of diabetes in these patients. Also, his scrotum coin purse is to remind you that a taxia-telenja tasia patients may also have hypogonatism. The dirty martini with the AST, ALT, and ALK bottles are to remind you that about half of patients with a taxia-telenja tasia will have elevated liver enzymes. The old dude's cerebellum haircut is a hook to remind you that these patients also often have cerebellar atrophy on MRI, which makes sense given the cerebellar trunkal ataxia and other neurologic symptoms. It's also important to remember that these patients have an increased risk of malignancy, especially leukemias and lymphoma in adolescents, as shown by our cancer crab and lymphoma limes. Remember that this is because defects in DNA repair means chromosome will break, fragments, gaps, and translocations are common, particularly rearrangements of chromosome 7 and 14. This is shown by our 7 boomerang, a t, number 1 sword, and number 4 flag near the bowl of lymphoma limes. Also, patients with a taxia-telenja tasia and female carriers of the mutated ATM gene have an increased risk of developing breast cancer, as shown by a burlesque dancer changing from a black to a red bra. Lastly, the washer hand sign is to remind you that a taxia-telenja tasia is one of the primary immunodeficiencies, with decreased levels of immunoglobin where IgE is lowest, as shown by the wall shelf with glasses falling off of it that resemble the letter E. Well, anyways, it's about show time, and I've got to put on my costume and practice my up-down aerial shimmy. What? You thought we were here just for the sketch? Alright, I'll see you next time.
