TRANSCRIPT: Atopic Dermatitis
==================================================

In this graphic, we're a top the skyscraper to cover a topic dermatitis. We'll be focusing on the epidemiology and pathogenesis of a topic dermatitis. First off, this itchy kid sneezing and holding an asthma inhaler represents the atopic triad. This triad consists of atopic dermatitis, hence the itch, allergic rhinitis, which is why he's sneezing, and asthma hence the inhaler. In him, a bag of cash signifies that atopic dermatitis is more prevalent in high-income and urban areas. This prevalence is thought to be due to greater exposure to pollutants and less exposure to infectious agents. Let's go over the subsets of atopic dermatitis. An itchy baby represents early onset atopic dermatitis, which is the most common type, and it typically arises by one to two years of age, represented by the baby holding up one finger. The baby's bib has an e on it to indicate that 50% of these patients will have an allergen specific IgE antibody. Next, the teenager symbolizes late onset atopic dermatitis, which usually appears after puberty. The old man represents senile onset, typically arising after 60 years of age, hence the itchy old man. Over by the kitchen area, we'll cover the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis. This grandma holding a golden staff signifies that atopic dermatitis skin is more likely to be colonized by staff alacoccus orias, hence the staff. The flag on the staff points to a loss of function mutation in filagrant, which is the strongest genetic risk factor for atopic dermatitis. These mutations can cause alterations in the epidermal barrier, affecting terminal differentiation, decreasing epidermal barrier proteins, and disrupting lipid organization. The crying baby on the flag symbolizes that filagrant mutations are associated with severe and early onset atopic dermatitis, often persisting into adulthood, as shown by the flag being held by the adult grandma. Notice grandma's red gloves. These indicate that filagrant mutations are also linked to hand dermatitis. On the counter, the kid crying while cutting onions represents that food allergies are often associated with atopic dermatitis. Does that kid licking a pink-five-armed starfish? The pink-five-armed starfish represents the spink-five mutation, which can also lead to barrier alterations due to desemogly-in-one degradation. Spink-five encodes a serin protease inhibitor, lekt-1, or lect-1, depicted by the pink-five armed starfish being licked. The kid's drool dripping down signifies that the barrier dysfunction causes trans epidermal water loss, hence the dripping drool. This leads to dry skin and increased penetration of allergens and irritants. Certain patients with atopic dermatitis have an increased transcription of immunologic proteins and cytokines that are part of the TH2 response. This is shown by the child wearing a shirt that says TH2 for TH2. This especially occurs in acute atopic dermatitis, shown by the acute timer that he's holding. These cytokines are IL-4, which is shown by the IL-4 on the door. Recall the number-riming systematomatographics. Next is IL-5, which is symbolized by a five-fingered pomprint on the door. IL-10 is also increased, as shown by this master chef holding a 10 out of 10 sign. And finally, IL-13 is shown by this annoyed 13-year-old who has a 13 on a shirt. On the other hand, chronic atopic dermatitis is represented by an old grandpa next to a chronic grandfather clock. This is usually TH1 predominant, shown by the one on his shirt, and he's also holding an IL-1 gun to highlight the increased IL-1 and interfere on gamma levels in patients with chronic atopic dermatitis. Time to review. The itchy kid with an inhaler, who's sneezing, represents the atopic triad. The bag of cash illustrates the higher prevalence of atopic dermatitis in wealthier and urban areas. An itchy baby indicates early onset atopic dermatitis, and the E on the baby's bib denotes allergen-specific IgE antibodies. The teenager represents late onset atopic dermatitis, and the old man signifies senile onset atopic dermatitis. For pathogenesis, recall the grandma with the golden staff, who signifies an increased colonization with staphilococcus aureus. And the flag that she's holding represents philagrin mutations. The crying baby on the flag symbolizes the association of philagrin mutations with severe disease that persists into adulthood. Grandma's red gloves represent an increased risk of hand dermatitis in these patients as well. The kid crying while cutting onions represents food allergies that are associated with atopic dermatitis. The pink five-armed starfish illustrates spink-five mutations, and it's being licked to symbolize that spink-five encodes the seren protease inhibitor, lect-1. The dripping drool represents trans epidermal water loss due to barrier dysfunction. By the door, the thing-to-child with an acute timer represents the TH2 response in acute atopic dermatitis, where we see an increase in TH2 cytokines. These include the IL-4 on the door for IL-4, the five-fingered pomeprint for IL-5, the master chef holding up a 10 out of 10 sign for IL-10, and the annoyed 13-year-old for IL-13. Finally, in the back, the chronically-old grandpa by the grandfather clock represents chronic atopic dermatitis. His IL-1 gun represents an increase in IL-1 levels. That's a wrap on part one of atopic dermatitis. Stay tuned for the next episode of Dermatographics. See you soon!
