TRANSCRIPT: Atypical Mycobacteria
============================================================

It's not a news you want to be loved by anyone. Okay, maybe this gathering is a little atypical, but that's only because we're going to be covering the most notable features of atypical mycobacterial infections. Specifically, we'll be covering M4tutum, Chalone, Absassus, Mavium, and M. Kensassi. These little critters are called atypical, but in reality that just means that they're not tuberculosis, and so they don't respond well to typical tuberculosis therapy. They're located pretty much everywhere in the environment, and the incidence of infection seems to be increasing in recent years due to factors such as HIV and increased immunosuppressive medications. Because of this and the fact that these conditions often manifest with no specific findings, you should have a low threshold for biopsy and immunosuppressed patients. Before we begin, note that we've chosen to show the rapid growing mycobacteria on the right of the walkway, and all others are considered slow growers. Let's get started with M4tutum, which will be shown by the tree fort here on the right. Note that we've chosen to show Chalone and Absassus in the same area of the sketch because they're all rapid growing and share the same risk factors, presentations, and treatments. The most notable in the US is MChalone. So let's put a picnic table here with a big pot of chili for Chalone. While this infection may show up as an opportunistic infection in the immunocompromised, test writers often like to go after the fact that these infections can also be a complication of cosmetic procedures such as liposuction or dermal filler injections. To help remember this, recall the banner that reads get filled with chili. But in case that's not enough, recall this woman eating the chili dog while soaking her feet in a relaxing foot spa, which is another popular clue in a question stem. She looks a little too happy, probably because she got a botched Botox job, and this quack doctor just left the syringe on the ground when he ran. The last species includes M. Absassus, which will show with this dirt mound with cream-colored flowers coming out of the center. Looks a bit like an obsessed, doesn't it? Farthermore, we'll show some stakes driven in around to remind you of injections and penetrating procedures. You should know that all of these infections are included on the Sporo-tricoid spread differential, and we'll use an IV with red flowers like this one any time we want you to think of Sporo-tricoid spread. Lastly, know that when treating these rapid-growing micro-bacteria, chlorythromycin is the drug of choice. Ah, and how romantic. These guys brought a live performer to play Jazz Clarenette for chlorythromycin. In some cases, surgical treatment may be needed however, so let's also add our surgical knife on the table. Now, let's talk about slow growers, starting with M. A. V.M., which we'll show in the back center with all these lovely birds. M. A. V.M. typically presents with pulmonary involvement in HIV patients. We'll show this with these suspiciously lung-shaped gates, and our recurrent first aid AIDS bag, which, hey, it's a must-have at any social gathering. Know uncommon if you see postials, nodules, or ulcers in the right clinical context, M. A. V.M. can cause cutaneous lesions through direct inoculation or systemic dissemination. Now, let's cover the species which produce photocromogens, meaning that when grown in dark, they do not produce pigment, but when grown in light, they do produce pigment. First, and my favorite character in the sketch, is M. Kinsassi, which we've chosen to show with this goofy little terrier. Toto, I don't think we're in Kansas anymore. If the Wizard of Oz isn't your jam, just remember these sunflowers growing along the fence. Why sunflowers? Well, they're the state flower of Kansas. More you know. The other photocromogen you should know is M. Marinum, and it will be shown with this relaxing koi pond. M. Marinum is also in the Sporo-Circoid differential, so note that we've added the Sporo-Circoid IV and flowers by the koi pond as well. We chose this hook because Marinum should remind you of marine or water, but also because the infection is commonly acquired from handling fish. You might be asked what is the best treatment for M. Marinum on the test, and you should know that it's minocycling. So let's keep the aquatic theme going, and add a sign to our koi pond with our recurrent minocycling fish logo on it. The astute among you may also have noticed a three-heart and one sword on the sign, which of course is to remind you of love and peace. Well, okay, fine. It's to remind you that M. Marinum is unique because it grows best at 31 degrees Celsius as opposed to the other species which grow best at 37 degrees Celsius. Now, let's reinforce that M. Marinum and M. Consassier photocromogens with this pair of floodlights which are shining on the fish sign and toto. Last but not least, let's talk about M. Olsirans, which, like the name implies, presents with Olsir's. We'll show this with our extravagant African prints, standing by this Olsir-esque hole observing the koi pond and wearing these torn pants meant to resemble Olsirs. Why African? Well, most commonly this infection occurs in Africa, usually near bodies of water, hence his position near the water. The questions stem may give you a clue that they're a farmer, so it will include this little planter box with veggies growing to remind you of farming. Notably, treatment for M. Olsirans is a surgical excision, plus or minus antibiotic therapy. Furthermore, it's best to intervene before the Olsir reaches 10 centimeters. So recall that he has a surgical knife on his hip, but also notice how he's holding a one sword and wearing a zero crown to remind you that surgical intervention needs to happen before 10 centimeters. Before we wrap it up, let's talk about the antibiotics that you can use for micro-bacteria. Notably, chlorothera mice and can be used, so recall the musical notes carrying over the walkway. An additional antibiotics might be needed, specifically refampem and TMPSMX, which will show with a recurrent refampem pellet rifle on the ground in the background, and our recurrent TMPSMX tampon in front of Toto. No, Toto, don't eat that. Leave it, leave it, leave it, leave it, leave it, leave it, leave it, leave it, leave it, gross. Well, on that note, let's wrap up this sketch by reviewing the hooks. This sketch depicts in an atypical gathering is to cover up the most notable of the atypical micro-bacteria, which can be divided into two groups, the rapid growing and the slow-grown. We've chosen to divide these in the sketch by showing the rapid growing on the right and the slow-growing on the left of the walkway. Our rapid-growing species include M4tutum, Mchelone, and M-obsessus, which are shown with the fort, chile, and obsessus look in mound. It can be seen as opportunistic infections in the immunocompromise, but they're also seen as complications of cutaneous procedures, such as filler, Botox, and foot-spaws, so we're called the Git-filled with chile, tablecloth, and Botox syringe, and the foot-spaw. A typical micro-bacterial infections, especially the fast growers, are on the differential for sporo-tricoid spread, which we showed with a sporo-tricoid ivy with red flowers growing up the tree. The best treatment is chlorothromycin, and is represented by our musician playing the clarinet, but in some instances surgical intervention may be needed, so we put a surgical knife on the table. The first slow-grower is M-avium, and is shown with the birds in the back. Usually, this is seen with AIDS patients and manifests with pulmonary symptoms more commonly than cutaneous. Remember the first-aid AIDS bag and the suspiciously long-shaped gates. The two photocromogen slow-growers are M-censassi and M-marinum, which are shown by Toto with the sunflowers and the Koi pond. There's floodlight shining on Toto and the minocycling fish sign to remind you that their photocromogen producing, and the fish sign is to remind you that M-marinum is best treated with minocycling, but also recalled that it's acquired through handling fish, hence it's in the fish pond. Now in case you need more random facts to help you win your next bar trivia, you can recall that the three-heart and one sword on the sign is to remind you that M-marinum grows best at 31 degrees Celsius, while all others grow at 37 degrees Celsius. Finally, M-alcerans is shown with an African man with an ulcer like Taren his pants. We chose an African and placed him near the pond and the planters box because it's usually seen in Africans who live near water or a farm. The best treatment is surgical excision, with or without antibiotics, so we're called a surgical knife on his hip. Specifically, this is best performed before the ulcer reaches 10 centimeters, so don't forget the one sword and zero crown. While chlorotheromycin can be used in most cases, and we showed this with the musical notes crossing over the walkway, additional antibiotics may be needed. These include refampum and TMP SMX, and are shown with the refampum pellet rifle and the TMP SMX tampon by Toto in the back. Now go grab a whiskey high ball, turn on some smooth Kenny G, and just go relax. We'll catch you next time.
