TRANSCRIPT: B-Cell Lymphomas (FINAL)
============================================================

Welcome back and settle in for one zesty sketch as we cover the different forms of cutaneous B cell lymphomas which are a group of malignancies that carry a wide range of prognoses and presentations. Specifically, we'll discuss primary cutaneous follicular center lymphoma, primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma, primary cutaneous diffuse large B cell lymphoma leg type, intravascular B cell lymphoma, and cutaneous involvement of mantle cell lymphoma. This sketch will be divided into four quadrants in the grass and the taco truck is a fifth area. Those in the grass are types that often present with primarily cutaneous involvement and the two front sections are for those types that carry a good prognosis while those farther back have a slightly worse prognosis. Now, let's get started by introducing the central hook, the sublime taco truck. Recall that a lime should remind you of lymphoma and the B in sublime is emphasized so that you can recall that this sketch is about B cell lymphomas. Alright, let's introduce our first characters, this dad and daughter here in the front. They'll represent the immunologic markers positive and most B cell neoplasms. Notice how the dad is holding a seven boomerang and a nine balloon for him and his kids to play with and how the daughter is holding her favorite toy, a two swan, and she's wearing a zero crown. Talk about daddy's little princess, huh? These hooks should serve to remind you that B cells in general will typically be CD 79 and CD 20 positive, but they're not specific for any particular subtype of malignancy. Don't fret, we'll talk about these later in the sketch. Now I'm liking this park already. They've got such nice landscaping. I mean, look at that potted plant with these follicle like leaves. This follicle like plant is to remind you of follicular center lymphoma, also known as cross-syslam phoma, and it typically presents as a solitary red to purple nodule on the scalp, forehead, or back. To recall this distribution, just remember this cool golfer guy standing next to the plant who's wearing a red hat and carrying a red rag draped over his back. How do I know he's a golfer? Well, it should be obvious because he is holding a number six golf club. Yeah, all right, not the ideal place to hit balls, but that's probably why they painted the B careful on the ramp. This B careful with the BCL emphasize is to remind you of BCL and the six golf clubs should remind you that follicular center lymphomas are BCL six positive. As a side note, recall that any of the markers shown in this sketch are positive markers. Recall that by looking at the big old plus sign that the walkways make. Another notable histologic feature is the absence of tingeable body macrophages. Tingeable literally means stainable, so we'll add this little vendor selling stained glass that looks oddly a little like tingeable body macrophages here on the right. But, oh, wait, what's that? He sold out. See, it's low yield, but in the diffuse variant of the slim phoma, tingeable body macrophages may be present, but I doubt you'll be expected to know this. Lastly, recall that the positioning of the hooks in the front on the sectioned area means that it's cutaneous and carries a good prognosis. All right, I don't know about you, but when I get a belly full of tacos, well, I usually start craving dessert. All right, true, I crave the dessert before the tacos as well. Well, I just like dessert. Anyways, let's move on. Luckily for us, there is a cookie stand. This cookie stand that reads Margie's cookies is to remind you of marginal zone lymphoma. Again, we've placed these hooks in the front section because marginal zone lymphomas generally carry an excellent prognosis. Clinically, they'll present as a discrete purple to brown nodule on the upper extremities or trunk. To remind you of this, let's add a little entrepreneur wearing a purple brown shirt with elbow pads, but you can only see his trunk and upper extremities. In direct opposition to follicular sensor lymphomas, marginal zone lymphomas are BCL2 positive and BCL6 negative. To remind you of this, recall the two swan cruisin by the cookie stand. Furthermore, if you recall the structure of a lymph node, the marginal zone is the zone of a lymph node between the central red pulp and the exterior white pulp that contains partially activated B cells that rapidly differentiate into short-lived IgM secreted plasma cells. In marginal zone lymphoma, this means that plasma cells are often a prominent feature. So, let's add some plasma cell chocolate chip cookie day cord to the cookie stand to make it more appealing. Furthermore, some of these cells will show cytoplasmic inclusion known as dutcher bodies, and lo and behold, these aren't just any chocolate chip cookies, they're dutch. Dutcher bodies to me look like a cluster of marbles, so we'll add a jar of marbles meant to resemble dutcher bodies to the cookie stand. Oh, and if you can guess the number of marbles, then we'll send you a dozen cookies, terms and conditions to apply. But maybe you're watching your figure. Ah, that's alright. Just jump on the jog and trail with... is that Lucy Liu? Just so you know, Lucy Liu is over 50 years old, a mom, and man is she fit. I mean, look at those legs. It's gotta be because she's got those fancy fitness trackers. Note that we made her legs exposed with these fitness trackers to remind you that this hook represents diffuse, large B cell lymphoma leg type. Like the name implies, and the trackers show, this presents with red to violatious nodules on the lower legs most commonly. A mnemonic that's used to recall the immunohistochemical staining of DL-BCL leg type is Foxy Mum's 2-60 legs. This translates to Fox P1, Mum 1, BCL2, and BCL6 in leg type. However, in case you want to visualize it, we'll add another two swan to the back and a clever fox who looks like he might be about to ruin that swan's day for BCL2 and Fox P1. Notice that the swan is eating some peanuts. This is for those of you with brain space to remember that it's Fox P. We'll also put another six golf club on the jogging trail for BCL6 and remember that the jogger is a Mum. Man, you really need to be careful in this part. Dodging golf balls, jumping over clubs, fighting off rabid foxes, yikes. Fortunately, the Mum brought a one sword to defend herself. Again, Mum 1. As a side note, DL-BCL leg type tends to have a worse prognosis. Not unlike what's about to happen to this swan. Meanwhile, there's a gardener over here just soaking everything in. Literally, and metaphorically, this gardener with his vascular appearing hose should remind you of intra vascular BCL lymphoma, which presents as purple patches and plaques on the trunk and thighs. We've chosen to show this with his flamboyant, yet stylish. Purple work about hanging over his thighs. In this case, the name should be enough to recall the unique histology, which is of course large atypical CD20 plus lymphocytes within vessels. However, the most notable fact is that while this type can be skin limited, it's usually systemic with spread to the central nervous system. So, let's give our gardener some brain-looking flowers to water, huh? Hey, just FYI, this type of flower is real. No, seriously, just Google Coxcomb. The resemblance is striking. Last but not least, shift your focus back to the taco truck. We've decided to cover mantle cell lymphoma outside the grass because it's the only type covered in this sketch, which is not typically cutaneous, but it will still occasionally show up on the boards as a histology question. To remind you that this is mantle cell lymphoma, we'll add this shelf or mantle to the truck where you order the food. In addition to normal B cell markers, mantle cell lymphomas also stay in positively for cycling D1, also known as BCL1, and CD5 plus. So, recall the sign that says, drive up with the one-sword artwork for cycling D1 and the cool 5 Maraka, which is shake when you need service for CD5. If you can only remember one, remember cycling D1, but honestly, I think you're going to remember the Maraka anyways, because isn't that such a cool way to get someone's attention instead of a stupid bell? Now, let's wrap this sketch up like a burrito and review the hooks. This sketch depicts sublime taco stand, which stands and covers BCL lymphomas. In general, BCLs display CD79 and CD20 markers as shown by a dad holding a seven boomerang and nine balloon for CD79, and his little princesses next to him holding her two swan toy and wearing a zero crown, which is for CD20. Recall that the park in the background is divided into four sections to cover four different lymphomas. Those in the front carry a good prognosis, and those in the back carry a worse prognosis. First is follicular sensor B cell lymphoma, as shown by the hair follicle looking potted plant. Next to it, our man practices in his swing and wearing a red hat with a red towel over his back, is to remind you that the lesions are most commonly on the head and upper back. His six golf club and B careful is to remind you that the neoplastic cells will stain positively for BCL 6. While the vendor sold out of his stained glass, meant to look like tingeable body macrophages, should remind you that the tingeable body macrophages are classically absent on histology. Remember, tingeable literally means stainable. Next is margis cookie stand, which represents marginal B cell lymphoma. This little kid selling the cookies is wearing a purple shirt, and his lower body isn't visible because the lesions most commonly occur on the trunk and upper extremities. Recall that lots of plasma cells are seen on histology. Hence, the plasma cell chocolate chip cookie decorations. Better yet, these cookies are dutch, which is to remind you that dutcher bodies are also present, and just plasma cells with lots of antibodies stored form and marble-like blobs. Marginal cell lymphomas are BCL 2 positive, hence the 2 swan for BCL 2. Defused large B cell lymphoma leg type is shown by our famous runner with her sexy legs. A popular mnemonic to recall the immunohistochemical stain in his foxy mom with her 260 legs. This stands for Fox P1, Mom 1, BCL 2, and BCL 6, as shown by our Fox and P nuts, mom with a one sword, 2 swan, and 6 golf club. We portray the woman as Lucy Lu, to remind you that the primary demographic is elderly women and the fitness trackers on each leg are to remind you of the typical location of lesions. Recall that just like this swan about to be pounced on by the Fox, patients with DL, BCL, leg type have a less favorable prognosis, and you have to rule out systemic disease. The gardener is just hanging out in the back left, and using his blood vessel looking hose to remind you of an intravascular B cell lymphoma, which manifests as purple plaques on the thighs, but typically has systemic involvement. Most notably, there is often CNS involvement as shown with our suspiciously brain-looking flowers. Last but not least is mantle cell lymphoma, which is generally a systemic lymphoma, but rarely it can present with cutaneous involvement. The test may go for it by telling you that it stands positively for cycling dependent kinase D1 and CK5, as shown by the mantle on the truck, the drive-up sign with a one sword for CDKD1 and the five maraca for CK5. Well, that about sums it up, Miyamegos, Hosta Lauego.
