TRANSCRIPT: Behcet's Disease
============================================================

Hello and welcome back. In today's sketch, we're taking you back to one of your favorite childhood movies. Aladdin. Now in case you have completely forgotten one of the best movies of all time, let me give you a quick synopsis before we get started. Aladdin is a street urchin who lives in a large and busy town long ago with his faithful monkey friend, Abu. When Princess Jasmine gets tired of being forced to remain in the palace, it overlooks the city. She sneaks out to the marketplace where she accidentally meets Aladdin. Long story short, he ends up finding a magic lamp with a genie and is granted three wishes. One of them is to become a prince so that he can win Jasmine over, which he ultimately does, and they live happily ever after. Or do that? Well, I don't want to spoil anything for you. Well, a genie in the bottle told me that you wanted to learn more about the Shet's disease. Well, your wish is my command, and now you only have two wishes left. This sketch takes place at the Shet's market where Jasmine and Aladdin meet, and Jasmine is then accused of sealing from one of the vendors and Aladdin has to save her. Now let's pop in that dusty old VHS tape and get started. Uh-huh, here we go. I forgot to rewind Aladdin. Bashet's disease is a multi-system polysymptomatic disease with unpredictable exacerbations and remissions. It's included in the family of diseases known as Neutrophilic dermatosis due to the classic findings of Neutrophilic infiltrate around vessels with leukocytoclasic vasculitis on histology. To remind you of this, we'll add in some pesky ants all throughout the sketch to remind you of neutrophils. This disease is most prevalent in Japan, the Middle East, and Mediterranean countries with the highest prevalence in Turkey, and that's why we chose Aladdin as the theme for the sketch. Both genetic and environmental factors play a role in the development of the disease, but it is important to note that more than 80% of Asian patients with Bashet's have the HLA B-51 allele. We'll remind you of this by placing this sign for a HALAL walk restaurant, with a five Maraka and one sword next to it. Notice how the HL and A is bolted in HALAL, and walk is to remind you that this allele is more common in Asian patients. Oh my, a rare and exciting event. The beautiful princess Jasmine herself. Keep it on the D-L though. She obviously doesn't want to be recognized. You see how she's wearing her silk mask, studded with yellow jewels to cover her face and conceal her identity? The Bashet's marketplace is no place for a princess. She also has the same yellow studded jewels in the groin area of her silk pants. The yellow jewels on her mask are to remind you of the first and most common symptom of Bashets, recurring apthus stomatitis. Apthus stomatitis is considered a major criterion for Bashet's disease and is almost always present at some point in the disease course. Diagnosis of Bashets relies on recurring apthus stomatitis, greater or equal to three times in a year, plus the presence of two other criteria. So, we'll add a three heart to her mask as a reminder of three times in one year. Now these painful oral ulcers may proceed the other clinical manifestations by many years, and an increase in severity of the ulcers is often noted with the onset of other features. The same studded yellow jewels in the groin area of jasmine silk pants are to remind you that Bashets often also present with recurring genital ulceration. These ulcers typically present as large irregular apthus on the scrotum, penis, and vulva. It's important to note that these lesions are often confused with HSV or other infectious etiologies, so it's always important to swab the lesions for cultures and PCR. Oh, now princess jasmine has started to realize that her disguise may not be good enough because the locals are starting to recognize her in the market, so she decided to put on her super stylish, ocular sunglasses to hide her face even more. These sunglasses are to remind you of the ocular findings of Bashets, which occur in 90% of patients. Most commonly, they initially develop posterior uviitis, but more serious retinal vasculitis can occur and lead to permanent blindness, while posterior uviitis is most common, other findings such as pan uviitis, anterior uviitis, hypopion, conjunctivitis, scleritis, erudosa colitis, and keratitis can occur in our features to be aware of. Notably, ocular symptoms and most importantly blindness is the number one cause of morbidity in Bashet's patients, so we have jasmine wearing a number one foam finger on her hand. Ah, look, some fresh fruit from the Bashet's market. Our vendors hold in one in each hand to show off how juicy and fresh they are, in hopes of making some sales. This vendor holding these fruits in each hand and near his face are to remind you of the facial and acropapylo postures that can occur in Bashet's disease. I think the vendor has definitely been eaten in his own supply, though, because his face and hands, while they look a little plump, a plump dude out in the Mediterranean heat. Oh, that's not a good look. He's looking a little red and heated. His swollen red hands and face are to remind you that some patients with Bashet's can develop superficial migratory thrombo-flablitus, but as an additional hook, let's add some wheels to our vendor's cart to remind you of migratory and have some hoses spilling out from the side to remind you of blood vessels. Less frequently, SVC thrombosis can occur, with the most common presentation being face-necked swelling like our chubby vendor. Oh, no. This vendor guy might be at his boy point. His darmaskido just bit him, and that is quite a big mosquito. Recall from our sketch covering pyoderma gangrenosum that a big mosquito with a swollen bump is a recurring hook for pathogen. Pathogen refers to development of a papula pusho at the site of trauma within 24 to 48 hours. Classically, it's tested by puncturing the skin with a sterile needle like a mosquito's needle. Ah, it's about time. Aladdin has finally arrived to save the day. He's running from the guards who seem to be distracted. Well, it's no surprise his first wish was to be at Prince because his get-up is pretty popper-looking. He's got some red patchwork on his white pants over bilateral shins. This is to remind you that erothema nadozum-like lesions can also develop in patients with Bashet, mostly on the bilateral legs and buttocks. Oh, no. It looks like he heard his knee-trying out around the guards. His hurt knee is to remind you that our throges are also common in Bashets. It's important to know that about half of these patients develop arthritis, most commonly in the knees, wrists, and ankles. Even those outfit isn't the most presentable for me to princess, I'm gonna say it has turban, but it looks pretty cool. Sort of brain-looking, right? This brain-turban is to remind you that Bashets can also present with neurologic manifestations, which usually occur as a late feature in the course of the disease, but if present, they're associated with a poor prognosis. Among the neurologic manifestations are acute meningioencephalitis, MS-like symptoms, and cranial nerve palsies, manifesting as dysphasia, or even trouble laughing or crying. It's like all the ways I would cope with having such a devastating disease, laughing, crying, eating, and I can't even do that. It is truly horrible. And just when things are starting to get romantic, well, it looks like a laden has set a fire to distract the guards and has unfortunately caused a busted pipe out of the market. It's spraying muddy poo water all over the place. Well, that is definitely gonna hurt food sales today. Did you notice that the pipe resembles a colon? If you did, then you are a dermnomonic's master, because this is our recurring hook for inflammatory bowel disease. The abdominal pain and hemorrhage seen in bashed's disease is often difficult to distinguish from IBD because they present very similarly. However, this colon has some yellow jewels on it, kind of like the ones on jasmine silk mask and pants. This is because ulcerations develop deep within the small bowel, in particular the iliosecal region, as well as transverse ascending colon and esophagus, which can lead to perforation. You know, I remember a laden being much smoother, but he really didn't pick the best locations to try to woo jasmine. It's not just the muddy poo water, but he's also too close to the trash can. If you've been watching other sketches, this trash can may look familiar to you as well. This is the recurring hook for cardiac valve disease, which is another potential manifestation of bashed's disease. It's important to recognize that these patients can have myocarditis, coronary arteritis, recurrent ventricular arrhythmias, and pulmonary artery aneurysms as well. Maybe his super-cool satulase wearing on his hip will make up for the less than ideal romantic scene. Remember, it's not a man purse. It's a satchel, and not just any satchel, it's a kidney satchel to remind you that bashed's patients can also present with glomerulonephritis. Now to second to soon, Genie has arrived to grant Aladdin his three wishes. He has waited 1,000 and one nights for this one. The Genie is sporting his jeweled silk face mask and belt in the groin area that is similar to jasmine's. He's also got some super-trendy double cartilage ear piercings. Now that is one gq look and genie right there. He's working his magic for the ladies. This genie represents magic syndrome, which is an acronym for mouth and genital ulcers with inflamed cartilage. Magic syndrome has features of bashed's disease, plus relapsing polychondritis. This genie with his yellow-jolt silk mask covering his mouth and the belt near his groin are to remind you of oral and genital apthus ulcers. His cartilage ear piercings, which spare the earlobes, are to remind you of relapsing polychondritis, which manifests as bright red swollen tender cartilage-inus portions of the ears, but it spares the earlobes. Notably, the lobes are spared because the target and magic syndrome is collagen 2, which is not found in the earlobes. Did you notice how Aladdin has a hold of the magic lamp? If you look closely, you'll notice that oddly resembles our number 2 swan. This is to remind you that relapsing polychondritis is due to auto-antibodies to collagen 2 and titers correlate with disease activity in relapsing polychondritis. Now let's finish up bashed's syndrome and quickly cover some of the treatment options. Unfortunately, bashed's is difficult to treat given the systemic manifestations, so there is no treatment of choice. However, recall that for neutrophilic processes, colchocene and dapsoon are usually a good bet, and they have been used to treat bashed's, so we'll place our dapsoon dim sum on our colchocene charcoal grill over at Halal Walk restaurant at the market. A notable and highly testable treatment for our recurring ulcers of bashed's is a primalast or otesla. Since otesla will show up in other sketches, we'll make it a memorable character and who better than a boo the otter? Wait, well you mean a boo wasn't an otter? Well Walt done messed up on that one because otters are way cuter than filthy spider monkeys. So we'll be using an otter anytime we want you to think of a tessla because we like otters better. Recall that a tessla works by inhibiting phosphodiesterase 4, so it doesn't need lab monitoring and it isn't immunosuppressive, but it will cause diarrhea so be sure to warn your patients. Other treatment options include any immunosuppressant that you would use in other auto-immune conditions, but when deciding which to choose, it's the patient factors that will ultimately drive your decision. These include methotrexate, azothiaprin, and tnf alpha inhibitors. We'll place our methotrexate t-rex, azothiaprin astronaut, and tnf alpha cell phone at the spenders table that sells kids toys and phones. Pretty high tech for a bashed's market. Well I have a feel in your next wish is to quickly sum up this sketch, so let's hit the high points for each hook. This sketch reenacts the classic Disney movie Aladdin where Aladdin meets jasmine for the first time at the marketplace, and in our version they meet at bashed's marketplace where we'll be covering bashed's disease. This disease is most prevalent in Japan, the Middle East, and Mediterranean countries with the highest prevalence in Turkey, which is why we chose Aladdin as the theme. These pesky ants marching down the street are hooked to remind you that bashed's is a neutrophilic dermatosis, and you'll typically see the classic findings of neutrophilic infiltrate around vessels with lugo-sidoclassic vasculitis on histology. Remember that more than 80% of Asian patients with bashed's have the HLA B-51 allele, as shown by our sign for the Halaal walk restaurant, with a five-maraca and one sword next to it. Jasmine wearing her silk mask with studded yellow jewels is a hook to remind you of the first and most common symptom of bashed's. Recurring apthus stomatitis. Apthus stomatitis is considered a major criterion for bashed's disease, and is almost always present at some point in the disease course. The diagnosis of bashed's relies on recurrent apthus stomatitis three or more times in a year, plus the presence of two other criteria, as shown by our three heart on her mask as a reminder for three times in one year. The same studded yellow jewels in the groin area of Jasmine's silk pants are to remind you that bashed's patients often also present with recurrent genital ulceration. These ulcers typically present as large irregular apthas on the scrotum, penis, and vulva. It's also important to recognize that ocular manifestations occur in 90% of bashed's patients, and we show this with Jasmine's super cool disguising ocular sunglasses. Post-serior uviitis is the most common ocular finding, but more serious retinal vasculitis can occur and lead to permanent blindness. Other ocular findings to be aware of are pan uviitis, anterior uviitis, hypopion, conjunctivitis, scleritis, erudocycitis, and caratitis. Ocular symptoms, most importantly blindness, are the number one cause of morbidity in bashed's patients as shown by Jasmine's number one foam finger. Our chubby, scorching hot vendor holding fruits in his hands near his face are to remind you of the facial and acropapula pustles that can occur in bashed's disease. His swollen red hands and face are to remind you that some patients with bashed's can develop superficial migratory thromboflabitis. The wheels to his car are meant to remind you of migratory, and these pesky hoses spilling out from the side are to remind you of blood vessels. SVC thrombosis can also occur in bashed's with the most common symptom being face and neck swollen as shown by a chubby vendor, but this is a rare manifestation. The darn mosquito bite in our miserable vendor and causing a big bump is our recurrent hook for pathogen, another manifestation of bashed's disease. Pathogen refers to the development of a papula pustle at the site of trauma within 24-48 hours, and is classically tested by puncturing the skin with a sterile needle like a mosquito's needle. Aladdin wearing his popper hand me down pants with the red patchwork over bilateral shins serve as a hook for aerothema and adosome like lesions that can also develop in patients with bashed's that most commonly occur on the bilateral legs and buttocks. Our throlges are also a common systemic manifestation in bashed's as shown by Aladdin hurting while he's running from the guards. It's important to know that about half of these patients develop arthritis, most commonly in the knees, wrists and ankles. His brain-like turbine is to remind you of the neurologic symptoms which usually appear late in the disease course and are typically associated with a poor prognosis. Acute meningiocethalitis, MS-like symptoms, and cranial nerve palsies manifest in as dysphagia or even trouble laughing or crying are some examples of neurologic findings that may be seen. Our muddy poo water, colon-like pipe burst in from the fire behind Aladdin is to remind you that GI symptoms of abdominal pain and hemorrhage in bashed are very similar to those in inflammatory bowel disease. If you look closely, you'll see the yellow jewels on our colon pipe, which are to remind you that ulcerations develop deep within the small bowel. In particular, the Iliocecal region, as well as transverse ascending colon and esophagus, which can lead to perforation. Cardiac manifestations can also occur in bashed's disease, include in vascular disease, myocarditis, coronary arteritis, recurrent ventricular arrhythmias, and pulmonary artery aneurysms. To remind you of cardiac problems, we've placed our recurrent cardiac valve trash can't near Aladdin as well. Lastly, his kidney-shaped satchel should remind you that these patients may also present with glomerulonephritis. Now that we've summed up the cutaneous and systemic manifestations of bashed's disease, let's quickly hit the high points of magic syndrome with our magic genie. Magic syndrome is an acronym for mouth and genital ulcers with inflamed cartilage. Hence, why are genious sport in his jould silk face mask and belt in the groin area that is similar to jasmine's to represent mouth and genital ulcers? His cartilage ear piercines sparing the earlobes are to remind you of relapse in polychondritis, which manifests as bright red swollen tender cartilage and as portions of the ears, but sparing the lobes. Notably, the lobes are spared because the target in magic syndrome is collagen 2, which is not found in the earlobes. To remember collagen 2, we've made the magic lamp Aladdin's hold in resemble our number 2 swan. Now, let's quickly review some of the treatment options for bashed's one last time. Remember that there is no one treatment of choice for bashed's given the multiple systemic manifestations, but since it's a neutrophilic dermatosis, you can't go wrong with dapzone and colchocene. For this reason, we've placed our dapzone dint some on our colchocene charcoal grill over at Halal Walk Restaurant at the market. Another notable and highly testable treatment for the recurrent ulcers of bashed's is a primalast oro-tesla, as shown by aro-tesla-audor chilling by the walk restaurant. Other treatment options to be aware of are immunosuppressants including methotrexate, azothioprin, and the tnf-alpha inhibitors, as shown by our methotrexate t-rex, azothioprin astronaut, and tnf-alpha cell phone at the vendor's table that sells kids toys and phones. Well, I hope you learned a whole new world of information covering bashed's disease today. I think I'm going to go log into Disney Plus and binge on some classics. I'll see you next time.
