TRANSCRIPT: Benign Follicular Tumours (Part 1)
============================================================

And if you don't speak wookie, welcome back. Today we're gonna cover some very hairy diagnoses in this sketch titled Let's Get Hairy. Specifically, we'll be covering the histologic features of the follicular neoplasms fibrophiliculoma, tricophiliculoma, tricoepatheloma, tricolamoma, and pylomatricoma. In making this sketch, I used an incredible article written by Dr. Ed Fulton and Dr. Gardner, which you can view via the link provided below. When learning these entities, it's helpful to know the normal anatomy and histology of various components of a hair follicle. So, I'd recommend a quick review of these structures. With that in mind, pay attention to the various components of the follicle that each of these tumors recapitulates to help you identify these on H&E. Again, the purpose of this sketch is to help you remember the key features and accurately identify them on a test. But be sure to check out our lesson in our scope course to view actual histologic images and to get a more comprehensive list of features. Now, when I thought what evokes an image of hairy, oh, I just couldn't help but make a sketch about Sasquatch. So, let's get going by introducing our first character, the Daddy Squatch, who's sitting on this Fibre's root ball with cobwebs on it. Papa Squatch on his Fibre's ball should remind you of Fibre folliculoma, which, of course, is just a tricodiscoma in a different section. Note how the Squatch has papules grown on his face. That's because clinically these lesions present at skin-colored papules on the face and neck. Histologically, though, they present as a Fibre's pink orb with blue epithelial strands radiating out from a follicle-like structure. To represent this, notice how Papa Squatch is working on making a new shawl to replace the raggedy old one that he's wearing, and he's chosen to make it a beautiful pink with deep blue streams, which kind of resemble the pattern that you would expect to see on histology. Plain and simple. Oh, yeah. Recall that Fibre folliculomas are associated with Burt-hog Dubay syndrome, along with Acro-Cordons. So, we've also included our Burt-hog Dubay hog, searching for some grub on the ground under this funny-looking fruit tree. The pedunculated fruit dangling from the tree is a recurring hook for Acro-Cordons. But, if you're a lumper like myself, and according to Elston, Fibre folliculomas, Trigo-Discomas, and Acro-Cordons are all probably the same entity just cut at different angles. Now, what would Papa Squatch be without his significant other? Probably? A lot less tired, because they have a whole litter of little monsters to watch after. Mama Squatch with her little squatches is where we'll depict Trigo-Feliculoma. To reinforce that this is Trigo-Feliculoma. We've added a sign that reads TOTAL FUN-TF. Like the name implies, this is a follicular tumor that recapitulates the entire hair follicle. Now, this isn't a diagnosis that you need to get into the nitty gritty details of memorizing fine features, because it's easily recognizable from low power. Specifically, look for what's commonly referred to as the Mama follicle, which connects to the surface, surrounded by all of her immature baby follicles. Much like this Mama Sasquatches surrounded by all of her baby Sasquatches. A mnemonic that I learned in residency was Trigo-Feliculoma, which might also help you recall this low power architecture. Surrounding this central follicular structure is a dense Fibre stroma, which is homologous to the Fibre's root sheath of a normal follicle. When we want you to think of a Fibre stroma surrounding, we'll have pink tangled vines, like these, which are surrounding the play area. Note that the play area is set down in a crater, and that's because in some instances, this section and won't always show the connection to the surface, which gives the appearance of a cystic structure. Oh, whoops! Looks like one of those TOTs that are lost their trike back here in the brook. Recall that we used a brook like this in our brook-schpiegler sketch, and that one of the tumors common in this condition is trigo epitheliumas. We use a trike like this one shown as a symbol for trico epitheliumas, but we've also included a little E in the trike frame as a subtle hook for trico epitheliuma. Recall that trico epitheliumas appear as dermal proliferations of baseloid cells with peripheral palisaden arranged in nests and cords. They can often be confused for baselocell carcinomas due to the proliferations of blue cells with peripheral palisaden. I like to just use the blue water to remind me of blue proliferations, and these rocks line in the water to remind me of peripheral palisaden. Unlike baselocell carcinomas, trico epitheliumas should not have a significant number of mitosis, artificial cleftin, or amusinus stroma. However, there may be scattered poles of amusin, and this is shown by these scattered poles of water between the rocks. A helpful feature of trico epitheliumas is the presence of papillary mizinkomobodies, which are small aggregates of spindle cells, in ovoid collections that indent into the baseloid nests. Much like this swirled moss indenting into the river, it's worth noting that these structures are homologous to the mizinkomobillar papillae found at the base of normal hair follicles. Again, these tumors are surrounded by dense fibrosstroma, hence why we've again included the fibrosivy border in the river. You know, I would have assumed a sasswatch were more of a nomadic people, but it appears that they're more agricultural. They even have a cow. Mooooooow. You may recall from our cowden sketch that this moon cow is a hook for tricolamumas. These tumors are on the multiple facial papules differential and are one of the key features of cowden syndrome, hence the cow. A notable feature of tricolamomas is an abundance of clear cells, which means tricolamomas are also on the clear cell tumor differential. We've represented this with these clear, empty milk bottles to remind you of clear cells. Like tricolamomas, tricolamomas have a peripheral palisaden of the baseloid cells and palisaden simply means to enclose or encompass. So, we've enclosed or encompassed the cow pasture with this baseloid blue fence. Lastly, you should know that from low power these often look like a cup-shaped lesion, which is another differential diagnosis to know. And we'll use a red solo cup like this anytime we want you to think of the cup-shaped lesion differential. Lastly, let's move to the center of the sketch where the lazy teen squash has taken a midday nap on this super comfy pillow. This squash with his pillow should remind you of pylomatricoma, or in this case, pillow macricoma. These benign tumors generally present as solitary papules on the face of children and adolescents, so we're called that this is an adolescent squash and his head is exposed, not covered up. Histopathologically, they're characterized by various amounts of two components, A, nucleot, pink ghost cells, which are simply dead keratinocytes, and sheets of small round blue cells. We'll come back to this, but I like to learn low-powered differentials and then work my way into the details to help differentiate. And pylomatricomas are one of only two tumors on the rolls and scrolls differential. Ah, now I see why he's so tired. He was up all night reading his comic scrolls. Use these scrolls to remind you of rolls and scrolls, and note that the key tumors on this differential are pylomatricomas and proliferating pylarsists. Once you've made it that far, then look for the presence of the mid to high power features to differentiate. In this case, the ghost cells are helpful, and it looks like this porcelos have an terrible nightmare about a ghost. Recall the other major component is blue cells arranged in sheets, just like the blue sheet that he's covered in. A common feature that can be appreciated both clinically and histologically is the presence of calcium deposition or even bone formation. Recall that calcium appears as deep purple nodules often with cracks due to difficulty cutting through them by the microtome. We've included deep purple rocks to remind you of lumps of calcium, and given the squash of bone that he's holding to remind you of bone formation. Alright, let's wrap up and get the fur out of here. This sketch covers the benign follicular tumors trichodiscoma, fibrophiliculoma, acrochordons, trichofiliculoma, trichoepatheliuma, tricholomoma, and pylomatricoma. Fibrophiliculoma is shown by the poppa squash sitting on the fibrosroot ball. These tumors are probably just acrochordons or fibrophiliculomas cut in different planes of sectioning. These three tumors are often tested in the setting of Burt-Hog du Bay syndrome, so we've included a hog to remind you of this. And we brought back the fruit tree with the weird acrochordon yellow dangling fruit from the Burt-Hog du Bay sketch. Histologically, they consist of a fibrosball of root-cheath-like material, hence the fibrosroot ball. And thin basaloid strands extending into the fibros component, just like the blue strands in the new shawl that he's weaving. The features of trichofiliculomas are shown by the toddler fun area where the mama squash and her babies are playing. This is a low-power diagnosis, so be able to recognize the mama follicle surrounded by her baby follicles and a dense fibrosestroma. Just remember the mom with all her babies holding on her in the play area surrounded by the dense pink fibrosvines. Trichoe epitheliumas are on the blue balls in the dermis differential along with basal cell carcinomas. Like basal cell carcinomas, there is a peripheral palisaden shown by the rocks palisaden or encompassing the brook, but they lack a musinous stroma, cleftin or mitosis. In trichoe epitheliuma, musin may be present within the tumor islands shown by the poles of water. A helpful feature is the presence of papillary mzinkomobodies, recapitulations of the hair papilla. This is shown by the mossy growth in dentin into the brook. A dense pink fibrosstroma is also seen, so remember the pink vines. Don't forget that these are one of the tumors seen in brook spiegler, which is why we've included the brook. The cow mowing represents tricholamoma, and the cow should remind you that they're common in cow dents syndrome. These tumors fall on several differentials, including clear cell tumors and cup shaped lesions as evident by the clear milk bottles and solo cups. Histologically, they're characterized by central clear carcinocytes with blue basal cells palisaden around the border like the blue fence in the sketch. Pylomatricomas or pylomatricomas are shown by the adolescent squash sleeping on the pillow. Recall his face and upper extremities are exposed because these lesions usually present as firm cystic papules on the face or upper extremities of children. Histologically, they often have calcium deposits and sometimes even bone, which appear as deep purple globules, much like these purple rocks. Recall that he's holding a bone to remind you of possible bone formation. For me, the most helpful features are the low power architecture of rolls and scrolls and the medium to high power finding of ghost cells, shown with the scrolls scattered around in the image of a nightmarish ghost. Well, that's about it for now folks. Please help us continue to grow by following us on social media and sharing our posts and content with your friends and colleagues. I'll catch you next time.
