TRANSCRIPT: Botulinum Toxin (Part 1)
============================================================

Today we're going to learn about botulinum toxin, or Botox, which will be shown by robots to symbolize botulinum toxin. Oh no, it looks like the robots are finally starting to take over. Notice the robot's purple color, which represents that clostridium botulinum is a gram-positive bacillus. That means that it stains purple on gram stain. This is the bacterium that produces botulinum toxin, and it looks like these robots set up a blockade in the road, blocking off this snail. This represents how botulinum toxin binds to snare complex, resulting in a blockade of acetylcholine release. To show this, check out this crushed can of acetylchola, representing the blockade of acetylcholine release. Acetylcholine is crucial for muscle contraction, so this blockade results in decreased muscle contraction, which minimizes the wrinkles that we see clinically. But over time, these muscles can undergo atrophy due to the lack of stimulation, and this is shown by the weak, frail snail that's undergone a lot of atrophy. Let's talk about the therapeutic applications. This robot holding a globe represents globular lines, which are commonly treated with Botox. The front bumper, with horizontal lines on the grille, symbolizes forehead lines targeted by injections into the front talus muscle. A man with an orbiting cloud helmet represents the upper or bicularis-occupied muscle, which can be targeted to treat lateral canthal lines, which are also known as crow's feet, as shown by the crow on top of the helmet. Next this wet ax represents severe primary axillary hyperhydrosis, a condition characterized by excessive underarm sweating, hence why the ax is wet. Botox is FDA-approved for this condition as well. The robot commander holding up two fingers symbolizes that it takes up to two weeks to demonstrate the full effect of Botox after injection. Up top, the three moons indicate that the effects typically last about three months. We use a moon to represent a month, because it takes about a month for our moon to complete one full orbit around Earth. The exception to the duration of three months is Daxi-Botulinum toxin, which is shown by the D-shaped ax that the robot is holding, that's Daxi-Botulinum. And notice that the ax has a six-shaped handle representing that this specific toxin has a duration of approximately six months rather than three months. So we covered the indications, but what about the contraindications? These power lines represent the electrical conduction of nerves, and they're falling down to symbolize that botulinum toxin is contraindicated in patients with neuromuscular disorders such as mystheniogravis, lambert eaten syndrome, and emiotrophic lateral sclerosis or ALS. These battles are heating up. This robot fighting an amino glycoside samurai highlights that Botox should be used with caution when patients are taking amino glycoside antibiotics like gen to mysin or muscle relaxants. Next up, we'll cover the complications. Check out this toaster being thrown at this man's eyelid. These robots are really getting creative with their weaponry. The toaster represents risk of eyelid tosis, especially when injected lateral to the mid-pupillary line. To treat this complication, look at this bear wearing an apron that has claw marks on it. This symbolizes that eyelid tosis can be treated using aproclonidine, which is an alpha agonist, which is why the bear is an alpha bear as shown by the alpha symbol on his apron. It works by stimulating the muller's muscle, which can help improve eyelid tosis. This is shown by the muller mule kicking the toaster away. Lastly, the jeweler from our tri-geminal jewelry store graphic holding a gold ring under her eye represents infraorbital injections, and the festune decorations around her symbolize that injecting under the eye can lead to lower eyelid festuning. Let's summarize. Watchlinum toxin is symbolized by row bots taking over. The purple color represents that clostridium botulinum is a gram-positive bacillus. The presynaptic blockade of the snare complex is depicted by the blockade of a snail. This prevents acetylcholine release as shown by the crushed can of acetylchola. Over time, muscle atrophy can occur, as symbolized by the weak frail snail. For indications, remember the globe for glubbeller lines, the front bumper with horizontal lines representing the forehead, and the orbiting cloud helmet with a crow representing lateral canthal lines, or crow's feet, which are caused by the orbicularis acetylcholine muscles. Primary axillary hyperhydrosis is depicted with a wet ax, for which Botox is also FDA-approved. The full effect of botulinum toxin can take up to two weeks, which is symbolized by the robot commander holding up two fingers. The typical duration that Botox lasts for is three months, as indicated by the three moons. The exception is daxy botulinum toxin, which has a median duration of six months. This is represented by the D-shaped ax with a six-shaped handle. Contrary indications include neuromuscular disorders symbolized by falling power lines, and Botox should be used with caution in patients taking aminoglycocide antibiotics as well as muscle relaxants. This is shown by the robot fighting aminoglycosamurai. Remember the risk of eyelid tosis by the toaster being thrown at the man's eyelid. Treatment for eyelid tosis with apriclonidine is symbolized by an apron with a claw mark. This is an alpha agonist, as shown by the alpha sign on the alpha bear. This medication stimulates muller's muscle, resulting in improvement of tosis, as represented by a mule kicking the toaster away. This is why the antifreeze orbital injections can cause lower eyelid festooning, as shown by the jeweler holding a gold ring under her eye with festoons around her. I think we should stop here before the robot's finished taking off. That's all for today. We hope you enjoyed this dermatographics. See you in the next one.
