TRANSCRIPT: Buckshot Scatter Histologic Differential
============================================================

YEEHA! Welcome to Buckshoot & Range, where we'll be adventuring into the projectile sporting world and learning about the Buckshot Scatter differential diagnosis. Now you might be asking yourself what exactly is Buckshot Scatter, and if so, you might better recognize it as the Pagetoid Spread differential diagnosis. That, regardless of your preferred nomenclature, recognition of atypical single cells adventuring into the epidermis on their lonesome is crucial for the test, but it's also so you don't miss a potentially life-threatening diagnosis. All of the conditions on this differential are malignant, so we'll leave the crabs out of the sketch. Now, before we get started, let's break down how the sketch is organized. There are four sections oriented from left to right, with each section corresponding to a different diagnosis. You'll need to know the diagnoses, but pay close attention to the other hooks in the scene, because the boards often like to go after the specific stain and profiles of each. Alright, let's get started on the left with this gentleman in the awesome jet shirt. We chose a jet specifically to represent Paget's disease, which is just cutaneous adenocarcinoma arising from a non-cutaneous source. Just knowing this can get you a long way when looking at histology, because cells of an adenocarcinoma will mimic glandular cells and therefore often have mucin in the cytoplasm, as well as a stain and profile that mimics adenocarcinomas. Oh, speaking of mucin, check out that ooze in target that bucks placed to shoot at. It may just be a barrel, but they filled it with mucinous goo, and to be honest, it's probably a lot more fun to shoot at. Use the imagery of this mucinous goo to remember that mucin will be present in the cancer cells, and thus mucin stains will highlight this population. However, test writers prefer to ask about immunohistochemical staining, and you should know that Paget's comes in two forms, above the waist and below the waist. When arising from above the waist, which is commonly covered in termatopathology and dermatology textbooks, the most notable immunohistochemical stain is CK7, which will be positive. So let's include a cool 7 boomerang here on the guy's shooting stand that he's going to practice with. You know, just in case he gets caught by a wall of being the outback. We won't include hooks for CK20, but try to recall that this boomerang is above the waist because Paget's from above the waist is CK7 positive, but CK20 negative. But if it's arising from a gastrointestinal source and showing up in the groin area, it's likely to be CK7 negative and CK20 positive. Oh, this guy must not be a very good shot. He hit the PVC pipe on the right instead of the bear target. Can't he see that there's a flag demarcating his shoot in line? This pipe is a simple reminder that even in cutaneous adenocarcinoma, the tumor cells may try to form ducks and the bear with a four flag is there. Well, because it's cool. Oh, it's also to remind you that bear app 4 will be positive, which can help distinguish this tumor from Bowen's disease where it will always be negative. Put on to what is possibly the scariest diagnosis on the list. Melanoma! We'll represent melanoma with these melons set up a shooting targets. Generally, the clinical description would help you, but test riders, they like to pretend that you're making a diagnosis based on no information. So you need to know the basic stain in profile. So let's add our marksman here and give him a big ol' box of 100 shells, which should serve as a reminder that melanocytes are S100 positive. But unfortunately, it's typically patchy staining, so take it for what it's worth. Now, you'll quickly learn that lots of things in the skin stain positively for S100, but when there's positive S100 in the epidermis, melanoma is pretty much it. However, if you feel so inclined, you could order additional staining such as HMB 45. Our hook for HMB will be a hummingbird. Personally, I think this would make an awesome name for a brand of ammunition. And I'm not the only one. Check out our shooter shirt. He's rocking some HMB hummingbird ammunition swag. Oh, side note. Yes, there are other stains that you could use in melanoma, such as K67 or Mark 1. But for our purposes, and for the purpose of staining the cells in the epidermis, S100 and HMB 45 are the stains to know. Oh, okay. I see that not all of the projectile enthusiasts here are beginners. Just look at grams here blasting some lines with a pistol. These lines should remind you of lymphoma, specifically cutaneous lymphoma, aka CTCL, aka mycosis fungoides. There are lots of different variants of CTCL, and more histologic patterns than you can shake a stick at. So for the purpose of this sketch, let's stick to the basics. CTCL is classically positive for CD3 and CD4, while being CD8 negative. We'll add a couple shooting targets of a three heart and a four flag for CD3 and CD4. To recall that CD8 is negative, recall that grams has a t-shirt to protest arrests for gun ownership, with eight handcuffs being crossed out. Lastly, let's cover Bowen's disease, which is just a form of squamous cell carcinoma inside to. We'll represent Bowen's disease with the woman on the right shooting a bow. Once I've recognition of other squamous features, such as a caratotic horn, standing is generally positive for Cito Carrot and 5 and 6. So because I always wish that there is a place with both a shooting range and a driving range, and guess who makes some rolls around here, let's give this woman a 6 golf club and her quiver to remind you of CK6. We'll also put a 5 Maraka on her shirt for CK5. Well, that's about it for this quick differential, but let's review the hooks before we hit the trail. Patch covers the buckshot or Pagetoyd spread differential diagnosis. There are four major diagnoses to know, and we've shown them in this sketch from left to right in four sections. On the far left is Paget's as shown by the PADJET on the man's shirt. Paget's is a cutaneous spread of an adenocarcinoma, because of this you can expect mucin and ducts as shown by the blue mucinous goo and the duct-like PVC pipe. When it's from the breast, aka above the waist. It will be CK7 positive and bear up for positive, so recall the 7 boomerang and the bear up bear target and 4 flag. While not explicitly shown, you can try to recall that if below the waist, it will be CK7 negative but CK20 positive. The next marksman is shooting melons which represent melanoma. There are lots of melanoma markers for staining melanocytes in the epidermis, but you should know S100 and HMB45 as shown by the box of 100 cells and the HMB hummingbird t-shirt that the guy is wrapping. CTCL is shown by the man shooting lymphoma lines. There is a ton to know about CTCL, so expect a sketch dedicated to it later. But for the purpose of building a differential and the quick and dirty stains to differentiate, just know that CTCL is generally CD3 and 4 positive, shown with the 3-heart and 4 flag shooting targets. But it will be CD8 negative, shown by the old guy shirt with 8 handcuffs crossed out. Lastly is bowens, as shown by the woman shooting a bow. This is a squamous lesion, so look for other squamous features, but for staining it will also be positive for cytokarits in 5 and 6, as shown by the 5 marock on her shirt and 6-coff club in the quiver. Also remember that bowens is bear up for negative, which can be useful when you need to distinguish it from patches. Well, that's it folks, oh actually remember to send us feedback and follow us on social media if you want to support us. Alright, I'll catch you next time.
