TRANSCRIPT: Bullous Pemphigoid - Clinical Features & Treatments
============================================================

Welcome back for our second sketch covering the blistering disease called bullspin fogoid. In this sketch, titled Grandpa's Big Party, we'll be covering bullspin fogoid variants, the features, and the treatments the diseases. So let's go ahead and get started. In this scene, the families all gather to share in Grandpa's Big Party. The big party signs we've brought back from our drois toy sketch should remind you that this sketch will be focusing on the clinical presentation and treatments of bullspin fogoid. To get started, you should know that BP is most commonly seen in men over 60. And who else to better represent that than Grandpa? If you've got unlimited memory, you might also remember that individuals with HLA, DQB, 0301 allele are at increased risk. So we've added this 0k, 3k, 0k, 1sword to help you remember this. It's not the best hook, it's also not the most important feature to remember. Class of discussion are droids toy sketch. BP is due to auto antibodies targeting hemidesmizonal proteins. Most notably BP2 and BP1. So we'll add our 2 swan stroller and our backpack with our 1sword to remind you of these antigens. And check out that loaf of bread, it's so fancy and friendship, lofi. It kind of reminds me of a hemidesmizonal in the way it's shaped. It's worth noting that BP1 is a member of the Plakin family and is not the primary antigen. I'll repeat it, it's not the primary antigen. Instead, it's not that auto antibodies to BP1 develop due to a phenomenon known as epitope spreading. You should remember that BP1 is part of the Plakin family. So try to remember this stack of plates next to the loaf of bread for Plakin. Party isn't about the bread though, so let's focus on Grandpa. Here we'll cover the basic features of Bulls Pemphicoid. Classically, there are 2 phases of BP, non-Bulls and Bulls. In the non-Bulls phase, there may be urticarial lesions, macular lesions, no primary lesions, or even polymorphous, meaning multiple morphologies. Most commonly though, it occurs as fixed urticaria, hence the name urticarial BP. Once it progresses, the truncates tend to fluid-filled vesicles in Bola form. Remember, they're tense, meaning that they will have a negative neculsive sign and negative asbo-handsome sign. In both cases, the primary system of all elements are the trunk, abdomen, and flexural extremities. So we'll draw these bright red, berry-pycromes on Grandpa's trunk and the flexors of his arms. While oral involvement isn't as common as in other blistering disorders, it does occur in up to 30% of patients. So we've added a few berries around Grandpa's mouth to remind you of just because a patient has oral involvement does not mean you can exclude Bulls Pemphicoid. Alright, alright Grandpa. Your story was great, but I really appreciate if you just share that delicious berry pie and stop spraying the berries everywhere. These berries represent esenophils. Peripheral esenophilia is commonly found in peripheral blood and in the tissues. So remember that these red berries on the table are to remind you that in 50% of cases, patients will have peripheral esenophilia. Next, let's discuss the clinical variants of Bulls Pemphicoid, each variant being represented by a different family member. First, we've got his loving daughter in her green shirt and look how excited Grandpa is getting to wave at the future grandperson. We've drawn her as a pregnant woman to remind you of Pemphicoid gestationis. Also known as herpes gestationis. Seriously, don't tell pregnant woman it's called that. P gestationis can occur at any time in pregnancy, classically starting near the umbilicus, and typically in the second or third trimester. Furthermore, many patients really flare at delivery or even following delivery. Remember, you really don't get a belly like that in the first trimester. It's usually the second or the third, and if you remember that her hand is placed near her umbilicus, that'll remind you where the blistering usually starts. You do have to know that P gestationis is associated with an increased risk for preterm delivery. The recurring hook for this will be this clock on the hall behind her. Furthermore, you need to know that there's a strong HLA association with P gestationis. So look at the time. No, seriously, look at the time. The hourhand and minutehand pointing to three and four respectively are to remind you that P gestationis is associated with HLA subtypes DR3 and DR4 with DR3 being the strongest association. Lastly, know that women with P gestationis are at higher risk of developing gravisis with anti-TPO antibodies. So let's add this cute little red blowtie to our soon to be mom. Remind you of the association with the thyroid. Next, take a look at her significant other standing behind her. It's a little playa. He's soon to be a big hit rapper, so stay tuned for our like and plainest sketch to learn more about little playa. Little playa is to remind you of like and plainest P emphagoras, which presents with blisters in the non-affected skin of like and plainest. Basically, think of it like like and plainest and then BP occurring in areas where you don't have like and plainest. Fortunately, we know this couple can handle the pressure of children, so they've already got a couple of their own. Do you see this adorable little girl in the center of the sketch? She represents Pemphagus vegetens, characterized by vegetative plaques favoring the inter-trigenous areas. To represent this, we've shown her down on the ground with the one of the presence. Do you see how the bow is kind of vegetating baruchus can kind of covering her groin? And as she has these frills on a shirt kind of covering some of the other inter-trigenous regions? This should remind you that the classic plaques you see are in the groin, inframamory, and axillary regions in patients with P vegetens. Her little brother playing next to her should remind you of the infantile or childhood form of bull's pempagoid. These kids, they often get blistering, favoring the face, hands, and genitals. So what are this whole mess of very filling to his face and give him a balloon animal on his hand to play with to remind you of acro blistering and notice that he's only wearing a diaper that should serve to remind you of the genital region. Now, I don't know if this is universal, but I feel like every time we have a family gathering, there's just one person who doesn't want to be there. It's usually an awkward cousin who definitely does drugs, watches too many cartoons, has a really fat abdomen. Maybe not for you, but that's what comes to my mind. And so we'll add this guy in the sketch over here on the right. To remind you of the drug-induced forms of pempagus. Notice how he's kind of like a fat cousin holding a bong, clearly doing drugs. A common demonic for remembering the drugs that caused both pempagoid is fat abdomen. But if you're not a memorized a letter's kind of person, let's just focus on the character. First, can you tell how furious he is? A furious character should remind you that this is for a furocimide. He just wants to do drugs and play more of a carcanned poll and check out that sweet shirt he's brought to match his favorite character of all time, Ace Ventura. This Ace Ventura Hawaiian shirt will be recurring hook for Aston Hilders. Recall from our pempagus vulgaris group that Ace Napertors have a sulfhydro group just like Penicillamine. And take a look at that. Our Penicillamine pencil has found its way into the sketch. He's probably using it creatively as part of his drug apparatus. I'm not sure why else he would have a pencil. What's next to his pencil? Only the coolest cephalopod in the scene. The cephalosporin cephalopod, with his sweet beta sunglasses, should remind you of the cephalosporins and other beta lactate antibiotics. Let's talk about linear IgA bolster mitosis, also known as LABD, which is technically not bolsterin figoid, but it's in the same family disease, and so we feel like it belongs in the sketch. Again, we'll bring back our recurring LAD ladder to remind you of linear IgA bolster mitosis, as well as the most common antigen, LAD1. LABD typically presents as anular, polycyclic, or herpetiform lesions, favoring the trunk, lower extremity, and groin. So to remind you of this, we've drawn our workaholic ant here on the right side, doing some home improvement. See how she's got paint and her overalls in the same distribution that we just described, and how a lot of the smudges kind of look anular? That's to remind you of the distribution and presentation of lesions of LABD. Remember that in adults, LABD is typically drug-induced, though. Usually, vancomycin or phenetzoin, remember the van in the tow truck from our droids toy sketch? In these cases, it can be much more diffuse without the typical crown of jewels or anular lesions that are common in the childhood form. Treatment of choice of LABD is dapso, plain and simple, so we've drawn a couple dim sum dapsoons, knocked over by a paint can. Treatment of all other forms of bolsterin figoid revolves around steroids, plus a steroid sparing and immunosuppressive agent of your choosing. Method Trexate, cyclophosphamide, azothioprene, and any of the above. So we'll add our recurring hydrochloric remind you systemic steroids, and then put a couple toys in here around the cooler to remind you of these other agents, a T-rex for Method Trexate, an astronaut toy for azothioprene, for calcitrant cases, IVIG, as shown by our IV-IV indoor house plant, or retuxemab are the treatment of choice. And wouldn't you know it? The family spared no expense on this big party. They've hired a waiter with a tux to serve the entrees. It's too bad that Fat Uncle Perry with his overly protective racquetball glasses is eating them all. Uncle Perry is to remind you of the mucous membrane pamphagoid, and a special variant called brunx-themed parry. Mild cases of MMP are best treated with dapso, but if there's progressive or ocular disease, you should treat aggressively with cyclophosphamide and systemic steroids. To remind you that this is the only form that cyclophosphamide is the treatment of choice, check out this awesome tucked-in t-shirt, Uncle Perry is chosen to wear support of his favorite band Cyclops! The single Cyclops Eye will be our recurring symbol for cyclophosphamide. On a side note, remember that you should never attempt surgery correction of these patients until after the disease is under control. U-Wis causing additional scarring and worsening of the outcome. Before we wrap up, here's some additional borde fodder you should know. DIF with salts with skin in bull's pamphagoid goes to the roof with an insurated pattern. So we've made this doorway shaped like the letter N for N serrated, and we've drawn decorative antibody shaped molding on the roof of it. Or you can remember as my fellow residents too, BP raised the roof, so this is a lot of information. I will hit the high points of the schedule, a pointy-outie chook. The big party sign for grandpa's birthday is reminded that the video will be discussing the variants of bull's pamphagoid. On the side, you can try to remember the HLA Association DR-0301, as shown by the 0k3-hart 0k1 sword. The items around the table are to remind you of some of the basic facts about BP. Notably, the primary target is BP2, as shown by our 2-swant stroller. But through a process called epitope spreading, CAM cause involvement of BP1, also known as the 230 kd protein, and shown by our backpack with the 1 sword and the air Jordan 23-230 shoes. Both proteins are components of the hemidesmason will complex, shown by the fancy French loaf of bread resembling a hemidesmason. BP1 is a member of the plakian family, so remember the stack of plates. The red berries are a recurring symbol for eocene fills, and the red berries scattered all over the table should remind you that about 50% of patients get peripheral eocenephilia. Grandpa, who's in the center of the sketch, should remind you of the classic patient population, old men, usually over 60, and common locations for the lesions. Infocized by grandpa's messy berry eating, with crumbs on his trunk, flexural extremities, remember that he has some crumbs around his mouth because oral involvement can be seen in about 30% of patients. His daughter in the green shirt should remind you of P just as she units, which usually begins with blistering around the belly button. Mom's hand on her belly should remind you of where it typically begins. Also remember that her belly is big, so you know she's in her second or third trimester. Remember that the clock on the wall has hands pointing to three and four. This is to help you remember the strong HLA association with HLA DR3 and DR4, but DR3 is the more important one. Her bow ties remind you that this form of bolstemphicoid can be associated with thyroid problems, specifically autoimmune thyroid disease or grave disease. Her significant other, Lil'Playa, should remind you of Lycanplainis spempicoides or Lycanplainis bolstemphicoid. Their adorable girl playing in the center is to represent p-vegetants with ferrucus lesions of the inner trigonist regions. Remember the frills round her chest and armpits and the bow and the groin. Her baby brother represents the infantile or childhood form of bolstemphicoid, which manifests with acral blistering or ophacial involvement and lesions in the diaper area. So remember the blue and animal on his hand, the redberry pionist face, and that he's only wearing a diaper. Our worthless cousin on the couch should help you remember the causes of drug-induced BP. Remember that he's the only one doing drugs. Recall that he's furious for furost from I because they're interrupting his video games. Remember that he's wearing this ace from sure a flora hawaiian shirt that's a recurring symbol for ace inhibitors. Our swanky cephalopod on the ground with his beta glasses is made it back to remind you of cephalosporins and beta lactaminabiotics, and the pencil next to him should remind you penicillamy. Remember that penicillamy and ace inhibitors share that calm and soft hydral group. In the front right, our workaholic aunt on her LAD ladder is to remind you of the linear IgA bolus disease, which is in the same family. The ladders are a recurring symbol from our droids toy sketch, and the A shape should remind you of linear IgA, but the LAD ladder should remind you that the primary antigen is LAD1. The blisters in this disease favor the buttocks, thighs, and lower trunk, with this pattern being represented by the paint on our overalls. Call that in children, this will often form anular cyclic lesions referred to as crann of jewels, but in adults it's typically due to drugs, and these lesions aren't as common. Fat Uncle Perry and his ridiculous rackable glasses and stuffing his mouth. It's remind you of Bromsting Perry also known as cicatricial or amicus membrane pimpicoid. For use splitters out there, Bromsting Perry specifically refers to the form of amicus membrane pimpicoid without mucosal involvement. It manifests as blisters and erosions on the scalp and face. His glasses and his stuffing his mouth should remind you that the eyes and oral mucosa are the most common sites of involvement, with feared complications such as cymblephron, blindness, tooth loss, and esophageal strictures. Uncle Perry's awesome cyclop shirt is to remind you that when there's ocular involvement or severe disease, the treatment of choice is cyclophosphamide in addition to systemic steroids of course. The DAPSONE dim sum that he's cramony as pie hole should remind you that DAPSONE can be used as first line for mild cases. Another thing that there are also DAPSONE dim sum over buyer LABD and the treatment options for other forms of bulsamin for cored are shown on the left. First line is systemic steroids, or hydrocouar, plus your choice of additional steroids for sparing agents such as azithybrine or metatrexate. Remember the astronaut and the T-Rex? The things such as mycophinolate cyclophosphamide could also be used. In recalcitrant cases, skeletal infusions with medications such as IVIG or texamab may be beneficial, so remember our indoor house IVIG IV and our super fancy waiter and his retuxant tux. Lastly, the boards expect you to know that DIF on salt split skin will show an in-surrated pattern with the staining on the roof of the blister, so we've made this doorway in the back shaped like the letter N and put some classy IGG shaped molding along the roof. Well, that about does it my fellow nerds. Don't forget to raise the roof next time you throw a big party for your Gramps.
