TRANSCRIPT: Bullous Pemphigoid - Basic Science & Basement Membrane
============================================================

Welcome back, Durham fanatics. Do you ever find yourself studying the minutia of the autoimmune blisterin diseases, but feel like you're waiting through the swamps of Dagobah with your trusty astro-mech droid R2-D2? Maybe it's just me. By speaking of droid, this next sketch takes place in the only store in town where you can get your very own droid, droid's toys. It's made to help you remember the finer details regarding the ideologies of the Pimpha Goid family blistering disorders, while the notable clinical features and associations will be discussed in our next sketch. The prototypic disorder in this family is obviously Bulls Pimpha Goid, shown in this sketch by our big party sign. BP is a disorder secondary to auto antibodies, the target different components of the basement membrane, leading to a split within the hemidesmism. Notably, the most common target BPag 2 is also shared with Pimpha Goids just a Shionnes, also known as Herpes just a Shionnes, but don't tell pregnant women that. To remind you of P just a Shionnes, we placed this very pregnant mom in front of our BP sign. You can think of these disorders as being the same disease process, both P just a Shionnes flares being hormonally driven. To help you remember that both BP and just a Shionnes share the BPag 2 antigen, we've placed our recurring 2 swan in the form of a stroller here in front of our mom. In the test world, they'll often use BPag 2 interchangeably with collagen 17 or 180 kiloadultin protein. These can often be confusing, so to help pull this all together, let's add a shelf in line with our stroller, prominently displaying this year's hottest toys, a one foam sword and a seven boomerang. Whoa! The boomerang can go a full 180 degrees? This should serve as a reminder that collagen 17 is our 180 kiloadultin protein. BP and Herpes just a Shionnes are less commonly due to antibodies targeting different basement membrane antigens, notably Laminin 5. If you remember from our epitomealysis bolosa sketch, Laminin 5 also has a different name, Laminin 332. To help you remember 5, you'll notice our big party sign is synchrodomyothemed, synchro for 5, but we've also added our recurring 5 Maraka. And to remind you that this is the same target antigen as seen as junctional ectromyalysis bolosa, we'll add the same I love animal's theme shirt to our mom. The last major target antigen for bullspenfigoid is BPag 1. This is less common than BPag 2. Again, BPag 1 is referred to interchangeably as a 230 kiloadultin protein. Our hook for BPag 1 will be this backpack with a one sword. And to remind you that it's a 230 kiloadultin protein, check out these sweet air Jordans. If you're a millennial, you may not know, but 23 was Michael Jordans iconic number, and he is number one. At least this kid knows how long he sees it. Classically, on astrology of bullspenfigoid, you'll see ESinophilic spongiosis during the erdicarial phase, or ESinophils within a blister cavity during the bulls phase. On a CBC, you'll see peripheral ESinophilia in a large percentage of cases. So let's throw some recurring ESinophil berries on our big party sign to help you remember that ESinophils are that big deal in bullspenfigoid. Our next disease in the Pempigoid family is mucus membrane Pempigoid. We'll portray this with our snot-nosed kid here making faces that are droid. Notice how the mom is also sporting an I love animal's t-shirt. Tremond you that this is most commonly due to auto-endibodies to lamin-332, also called lamin-5. This disorder can also be caused by antibodies targeting BPag2, but it targets the C-terminus as opposed to BP which targets the NC-terminus. So we put a small C on the striller to help differentiate. Well, classically disease has predilection from ucus membranes. There isn't ocular predominant form, which targets the alpha-6 beta-4-integrin. Well, I love R2-D2. I'm digging this droids beta-esque shaped eye unit. This is to help remind you of ocular predominant mucus membrane Pempigoid due to alpha-6 beta-4 integrin. So let's highlight our droids eyes with cool red lights and give them a recurring four-flag to hold. Lastly, don't forget that lamin-332 is also called lamin-5, so we'll give our robot a five-maraca for safe measures. Next, we'll discuss IgA bull's disease, also called linear IgA or LABD. The features of LABD will be shown on the back left-hand side of the sketch. And to help you remember that this is linear IgA, we've drawn the store clerk on a ladder shaped like an A. This lad or shaped like an A should help you remember the first antigen of LABD, which is LAD1. Now hang in there, because this is where numbers are hard. LAD1 is just the 120 kilodolton cleaved portion of BPag2. And test riders like to confuse you by using this alternate colloquium. So to try and help you out, look at the shells by our clerk. You'll notice how this store is selling our sweet swan stroller. But what? The swan attachment sold separately? What a rip off! You'll also notice that they're selling the one film sword and accompanying King Arthur's crown. To put this together, one sword, two swan, zero crown, that shouldn't mind you 120. And the fact that the stroller is sold in pieces should help you remember that this is a cleaved portion of BPag2. As a bonus, you can use this julled crown to remember the classic finding clinically described as crown of jewels, which is just another way of saying an annular ring of blisters. The other notable target of LABD is LABD97. That's pretty straightforward. It's 97 kilodolton protein seen in linear IgA. So our store is also selling balloons. This is our occurring symbol for 9. As well as the 7 boom ring, both here on the shelf, to remind you of 9 balloons, 7 boom ring, 97. Well, there are many causes of LABD. You have to remember that vankemiessen and finitone are probably the most important. So we'll put a toy tow truck here and a toy van on the top shelf, to remind you of finitone and vankemiessen. Let's bring this getch home with an easy one. Bulls Lupus. Bulls Lupus targets the anchoring fibros composed of collagen 7 in the sublaminidensa. Our occurring symbol for Lupus is a wolf, which is shown prominently on our wolf arraying. To remind you that this is due to auto antibodies against collagen 7. I know, I know. That's too many numbers. So let's go through this one more time. This getch takes place in droids toys. To remind you of Pempha Goyd family of blistering disorders. Our first is bulls Pempha Goyd, shown by our big party sign. This in Pempha Goyd to Stachionis also known as Herbigestachionis, you can think of as being the same disease. They have the same antigens and the same presentation with the exception that Pigestachionis occurs with hormonally driven factors. The targets in these two diseases are most commonly B-Pag 2, shown with our two duck, also called collagen 17 or 180 kilodaltine protein. I remember the one sword 7 boomerang and I remember the boomerang goes a full 180 degrees. Another common antigen is Laminin 5, also known as Laminin 332. So remember that it's a synchrodomyosign, also remember that we've thrown our 5 maraca in there for safe measures. Lastly, if you remember that Laminin 332 is also in our epidermalysis polosis sketch. We've brought back the recurring I love animals, themed t-shirt, and put it on the mom to wear. The last major target antigen in Bulls Pemphagoid is B-Pag 1, shown with our backpack and the one sword. Remember that this is a 230 kilodaltine protein, shown with our 23-air Jordan's. Next, we have our mucus membrane pymphagoid, shown with our snot nose kid. This is due to auto-antibodies to Laminin 332, again the mom wearing the I love animal shirt, which is also known as Laminin 5, so look at the maraca. Remember that this can be due to B-Pag 2 as well. However, unlike Bulls Pemphagoid, this is the C-terminus of the protein. Remember the C-dron on the stroller. In the special form of mucus membrane pymphagoid called ocular predominant mucus membrane pymphagoid, it's due to targeting the Alpha 6 beta 4 Laminin. Remember our droids' cool beta eyes lit up in red and the 4-flag. Next, we have linear IgA. This is due to auto-antibodies targeting LAD1. Remember that LAD1 is just a cleaved portion of B-Pag 2. Remember how the stroller is cleaved or split and sold separately. This may also be referred to as the 120 kilodaltine protein, so remember the one-sword, two-swan, zero crown. You can also use the crown to remember the crown of jewels as a classic finding on exam. The second target in linear IgA is LABD 97. Remember them selling our 9 balloons and 7 boomerang. The most common causes of LABD are phenetone and vancomycin, so remember our toe truck and our van on the shelf. Lastly, we have bullis lupus, shown here with our prominent wolf on the wolf array. The wolf array is shaped like GIN like the number 7. Tremendue that this disease is due to auto-antibodies targeting collagen 7, which composes the anchoring fibers. Alright folks, well that's all. A lot of numbers, if you made it through this, you're truly becoming one of the fours.
