TRANSCRIPT: Carney Complex
============================================================

Hey, and welcome back. In today's sketch, you've got yourself a ticket to the craziest carnival in town. I'm talking about the Carnie Carnival. Here we'll be covering Carnie Complex, aka Name or Lamb Syndrome. Carnie Complex is one of the many lentiginosis syndromes with several distinct features. So let's go ahead and grab some funnel cake. Oh, get the hot dogs too. Alright, that's enough. Let's go get started. Carnie Complex is caused by an autosomal dominant mutation due to the PRK AR1 aging, in about 50% of cases. To remind you of this, we've placed this sign directing you to the parking lot shaped like our number one sword that says, Park your car. That's near the entrance to our carnival. And to remind you that this is an autosomal dominant mutation, well, notice how the gates look conspicuously like our recurrent autosomal dominant dominos. While there are lots of fun things to do at this carnival, I think we have to stop at the pet in zoo. Because I mean, just look at this adorable little baby lamb. Aww, he's so cute. I think, come on, who can resist pet in this guy? This lamb should remind you of the other name for Carnie Complex, aka Lamb Syndrome, where L is for lentiginies, AM is for atrial mixomas, and B is for blue nevi. Just promise me that you'll wash your hands before digging into the carnival food, because it looks like this little guy is a bit dirty. He's got specks of mud all over his face that kind of resemble periorefacial lentiginies. This should remind you of the prominent periorefacial lentiginies that occur in Carnie Complex in roughly 77% of patients, but they often fade with time. What a jerk! This kid just spilled cafe ole coffee on our precious lamb. I demand that we put him in carnival torture chamber with the clowns, or maybe. And force him to ride one of these makeshift roller coasters backwards. This cafe ole spilled on our lamb should also remind you that these patients may present with cafe ole macules. Well, well, well. I guess it's not a true carnival without a freak show. Or maybe it's just a super old 90s band that is really having a tough time getting gigs these days. Alright, I might be dating myself, but do you guys remember the Blue Man Group? If not, I apologize. But it looks like they're making a comeback at Carnie Carnivals. Not really. Just look at the stage back there. In case it's not painfully obvious, the Blue Man will be our recurrent hook for Blue Nevi. For Carnie Complex in particular, it's important to remember that these patients present with epithelioid Blue Nevi, which generally lack the typical sclerotic stroma seen in other types of Blue Nevi. In future sketches dealing with Dermpath, if we want you to think of fibrosis, we'll depict a big woolly sweater. But in this case, there is not fibrosis. Hence, why we've made our Blue Man shirtless. Another feature which can be helpful when you come across one of these lesions on a slide is the presence of two melanocyte populations. One which is heavily pigmented and spindled, like you might expect in a Blue Nevis. But the second are lightly pigmented melanocytes with angulated nuclei. This population is relatively unique to epithelioid Blue Nevi. To recall angulated melanocytes, just remember this festive, yet abstract modern, angulated artwork of melons that the Blue Man group has chosen to use as their exciting and fresh new artwork. Ooh, no, no, no, no. Ruler Coasters really give me heart palpitations. Especially ones with big drops look like EKG waves. Yeah, like that super sick coaster back there appropriately called the Heart Plop. This Heart Plop EKG coaster should remind you of atrial mixomas often seen in carny complex. If you can dig way back into your internal medicine rotation, you may remember that atrial mixomas reveal a tumor plop on osthaltation just after the S2 heart sound. While often asymptomatic, there is a risk of embellization, so it's important to not forget about this feature just because you're a dermatologist. Speaking of mixomas, let's go get in line at that mixoma frozen lemonade stand. This mixoma stand should remind you that cutaneous mixomas are common in carny complex patients and may affect the eyelids, ear, nipple, breast, and mucosa. Ooh, aloha. It looks like this bar may be tropical themed with the festive crab on the awning. Or, uh, actually it's probably cancer themed because it looks like our recurrent cancer crab. Maybe in this case it's both. Recall that carny complex patients are at risk for breast ductal carcinoma, as shown by our waitress showing off her red bikini top, as well as thyroid nodules or carcinoma, as shown by our fancy gentleman, ordered a drink wearing his thyroid bow tie. Oh, I think this guy needs to cool it on the frozen drinks. It looks like he's spilled a big dollop of frozen lemonade on his super cool kidney satchel. Now, maybe I've been doing too much germamonic lately, but doesn't that dollop of yellow drink kinda remind you of an adrenal gland? The adrenal gland looking slushy-pow should serve to remind you that carny complex patients are also at risk for primary pigmented adrenal cortical disease, which manifests similar to cushions syndrome. Oh, this fruit is super fresh, and it's hanging ready for mixing up some swirls, as shown by our swirls only sign right next to it. But I do think I'll pass on this one. Maybe it's because I've already had one too many swirls, or maybe it's because the hanging fruit kinda looks like a pair of testicles. This testicle looking fruit with the swirls only signs should remind you of Sir Toly Cell tumors, which are testicular tumors that occur in 33% of carny complex patients. Now hold up, who threw that melon in the petan zoo? First cafe O'le, now melon? I'm not even sure it's safe for swans to eat a melon. I've never actually seen that before. Alright, now I do apologize for using a swan. No, in this case it doesn't represent a number, but instead it's to remind you of Schwannoma, or Schwannoma, as I like to say. So we did our best to make him look nothing like a number, and are taking some extra time to explain it in hopes that you'll forgive us. Specifically, this swan eating melon is to remind you that another unique tumor seen in patients with carny complex is some omidus melanotic Schwannomas. Oof, now there was a lot going on at that carnival. It was mixed up my drinks are strong, and man, I'm not dizzy from all those carnival ads. Alright, let's just hit the highlights of this sketch before I have to run, and yeah, I can forget everything. Carny Complex, aka name or lamb syndrome, is caused by an autosomal dominant mutation due to the PRKAR1A gene. As shown by our sign, shape like our number one sword that says park your car near the entrance to our carnival and autosomal dominant domino entrance door. The cute lamb in the petan zoo should remind you of the other name for carny complex, aka lamb syndrome, where L is for lentigines, AM is for atrial mixomas, and B is for blue nivai. The specs of mud on our lamb's face and spilled cafe ole coffee should remind you of peri-or official lentigines and cafe ole macules as features of carny complex, respectively. Our shirtless blue man group oddly perform at a carnival should remind you of blue nivai, and since they're shirtless, aka lach and a furry sweater, this should remind you of epithelioid blue nivai in particular, which lack the sclerotic stroma seen in other types of blue nivai. The angulated modern melanar work is to remind you that in addition to the typical spindled pigmented melanocytes seen in normal blue nivai, epithelioid blue nivai also have a second lightly pigmented population of angulated melanocytes. This super scary heart plop EKG coaster should remind you of atrial mixomas often seen in carny complex and can be life threatening, so don't only focus on the cutaneous findings. Oh and speaking of, cutaneous mixomas are common in carny complex patients and may affect the eyelids, ear, nipple, breast, and mucosa as shown by our mixoma frozen lemonade stand. Cancer may also arise in carny complex as well, as shown by our recurrent cancer crab placed on our mixoma stand on it. Breast ductal carcinoma as well as thyroid nodules and carcinomas are common, as shown by our waitress in our red bikini top and the man in the thyroid bow tie, respectively. Patients are also at risk for primary pigmented adrenocortical disease, which manifests similarly to cushions syndrome. This is shown by our big dollop of adrenal gland like frozen lemonade spilled onto our customer's renal satchel. The testicle looking fruit with the swirls only signs should remind you of Sir Toly cell tumors, which are testicular tumors that occur in 33% of carny complex patients. Lastly, the swan weirdly chow and down on some melancholy should remind you of some momentous melanotic schwanomas. Well, I don't know about you, but all these mixoma drinks in this freak show is totally weird in me out. I think I'm going to cash in my carnival tickets, and I'll see you next time.
