TRANSCRIPT: CHH and CHILD Syndromes
============================================================

Well, hello there, and welcome back. Now I'll tell you what. I have been looking for childcare, but it's just crazy out there. Between 6 month waiting lists, exuberant prices, and I mean just the thought that strangers are going to be raising my kids. I don't know how anyone can decide. But I got worried about that any longer, because Conrad's childcare covers all the bases, and they have openings right now. Today we'll be talking about two genome dermatosis that have a lot of overlap in presentations, Conradi Hunerman-Happel Syndrome, and Child Syndrome. Before we get going, note that the scene is broken up into three main sections. Conradi Hunerman-Happel Syndrome is on the left, Child Syndrome on the right, and shared features are in the center. Also, note that the name of the daycare facility is written on this retaining wall, with Conrad's written on the left, and Childcare written on the right. Interestingly, both CHH and Child Syndrome are transmitted in an X-linked dominant fashion, which is shown by the X-style in made of dominant dominoes on the gate to the play area. Now, recall from first year of medical school that diseases that are X-linked dominant are generally lethal in males, and thus will only be observed in females. But being said, pay close attention to the characters in the sketch, who are pretty much all females. Oh, speaking of, check out Conrad. She may look emo, but trust me, she knows what she's doing. Conrad being depicted as emo is to remind you that CHH is due to mutations in a mo-pomile bind in protein, and the little girl she's watching will serve to remind you of the clinical features unique to CHH. But how this little girl appears to be hopping along this line on the ground for fun. And I swear, little kids, huh? They just make a game out of anything. This line on the ground is to remind you that cutaneous findings in CHH manifest in a linear distribution following Blaschco's lines. It's worth noting that these patients present with generalized Icthiosiform erythriderma at birth with an adherent scale along Blaschco's lines. However, note that the cool fish rug we've included is in the center of the room. This is because both CHH and child syndrome present with Icthiosus. But the distribution is what will help you differentiate the two conditions. To reinforce this, we've made the back wall of the left a single solid color to exemplify generalized while the wall in the right corresponds to child syndrome in a split-in-half. Don't worry, we'll come back on why. Oh man, this little girl is goofy. Why is she holding this opaque glass up to her eye? Maybe just to make her game more challenging? Or perhaps it's because patients with CHH can develop the unique, ocular finding of unilateral cataracts. Hmm, sidebar. Yeah, we usually use red sunglasses for ocular findings, but it's important to remember that in cases of CHH, the findings are uniquely unilateral, and we wanted to use something a little bit different to help emphasize that. I know that earlier we said we shouldn't worry, but yeah, I'm starting to worry. I mean, there's an ice pick just sitting out on the ground next to this fidget pop toy and spilled milk. These hooks represent the later cutaneous findings of CHH. Notably, ice pick scarring and follicular atrofiderma as shown by the ice pick and fidget pop toy, which will be a recurring hook for follicular atrofiderma. It's worth noting that there are really just two major conditions you need to know for tests that have follicular atrofiderma as a key feature, rhombocindrom and conradihunerman haphal syndrome. However, they are easily differentiated by the location of the atrofiderma. In rhombocindrom, it's generally on the face, while in CHH, it's generally on the dorsal hands and extremities. We'll add a glove to the fidget pop toy in this sketch to reinforce that. Recall from other sketches that milk is a hook for calcification, and in this case, we've included the spilled milk by the hook for follicular atrofiderma because while the histology is often non-contributive, you may see distrophic calcification in a biopsy of the carototic plugs. Another feature that can be seen in CHH is macrosetfully and frontal bossin, as shown by the little girl putting on a macrosetfully 10 gallon hat. Note that the other bone defects are also common, notably limb defect, but these are shared between child syndrome and CHH, so we'll include hooks for these in the center. For instance, asymmetric limb shortening can be seen in both child syndrome and CHH. Over from our lumbar yard sketch, we used a stool with uneven legs to depict this, and we're going to use that hook again. We'll include a couple chairs and stools on the fish rug that clearly have legs of different lengths. Huh, this place seems to be getting worse by the minute, doesn't it? Well, at least they've got the best childhood game, and by that, I mean connect for. I don't know why, but when I was imagining a radiograph of a bone with conjure dysplasia punctata with stippled epiphasis, I thought of a connect for board stippled with circular game pieces. So since it isn't really a common finding, and it will really just be limited to this sketch, we'll use a connect for game as a hook for conjure dysplasia punctata, which can be seen in both syndromes and the location of the hook in the center of the sketch. While probably not high yield, try to remember that the bone findings mirror the skin findings, meaning that in CHH, there will be Ipsilateral to Coutaneous findings. Alright, so if the janky chairs and the ice picked in scary off, I bet this mean lady teacher will. I mean, she's yelling at this kid saying, Now sit down here. We've shown this caretaker on the right hand side so that you'll associate her with child syndrome, and her yelling now sit down here is because a popular mnemonic to recall the mutation in child syndrome is, now sit down here little child, which is to remind you that X linked dominant mutation in NSDHL, also known as 3 beta hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase, is responsible for child syndrome. Before we go on, I want to remind you that child is an acronym for congenital hemidysplasia with Ictyosiform erythriderma and limb defects. Yeah, it's a mouthful, so let's just stick with child. But remember the stool with short legs to remind you of hemidysplasia, which results in hypoplastic limbs and the fish rug for Ictyosiform erythriderma. Unlike CH, the Ictyosiform erythriderma of child syndrome generally affects half of the body with a sharp midline demarcation, hence why the back wall on the right is split 50-50 into two colors. See, I told you we'd come back to it. Additionally, we'll add this chalkboard with some math showing 7 divided by 14 equals 1 half to further emphasize that it only affects half of the body. Oh, well now we know how the teacher is so mad. This boy isn't a math, he's instead making fart noises with his armpit. Speaking of armpit, note that as patients with child syndrome age, the Ictyosiform erythriderma gives way to more varuchus hypercharitosis that tends to favor flexural areas such as the axilla or antacupital fossa. Full stop, you're probably wondering why we included a boy in the sketch after telling you that the characters would all be female. Well, despite being incredibly rare and probably something that you will never see in your entire life, test writers like to go after the means of transmission in a roundabout way by giving you enough features to make you think that it's child syndrome or CH for that matter, but they'll tell you it's a boy. This can only happen if the boy also has client filters, a genetic profile of XXY. To remind you of client filters, we've put a cozy recliner by the boy. Yeah, talk about board fodder, huh? Unfortunately for this poor kid, the mean sitter is not going to let him sit down in the nice recliner. Instead, she's pointing to the oddly spleen-shaped bean bag. This spleen-shaped bean bag is just a subtle reminder that patients with child syndrome may have Ipsilateral organ hypoplasia. I guess he should have been more like this little girl and sat down to play with some nice bows. Recall that we use bows like this to signify verucous lesions, and in this case, it's because of the ladder stages. The skin tends to be more verucous and hyper-carototic. Alright, well, let's wrap this sketch up before we start looking for a different daycare. Recall that this sketch covers Conradi, Hunerman Hapel, and Child Syndrome as depicted by the name of the daycare center on the wall, Conrad's Childcare. Both syndromes are inherited by an X-linked dominant fashion, hence the X-made of dominoes on the gate. Features unique to CHH are depicted on the left, shared features in the center, and features unique to child syndrome are on the right. CHH is due to mutations in a mopamil bind in protein, so Recall that Conrad is an emo and has the unique features of unilateral cataracts, Blaschcoid adherent scale, icepick scarring, follicular atrofiderma of the distal extremities, and macrosethyl, as shown by the little girl holding in a pake glass over one eye, the yellow line that she's on, icepick, follicular atrofiderma, fidget pop toy, and the girl with the 10 gallon hat. On histology of elision, you might see distrophic calcification hence the spilled milk. Constantly, with both CHH and child syndrome can have limb length discrepancies, Conrad Displasia, Pancata, and Icthiosiform arythriderma, which is why we have the stools and chairs with uneven legs, connect forebord, and fish rug are all in the center of the sketch. Recall that the wall on the left is a single color, while the wall on the right is two colors with a math equation. That's to remind you that in CHH these findings are classically generalized, while in child syndrome there's usually a sharp midline demarcation with the other findings manifest in itpsilaterally. On the right, the mean sitter is saying, Nassit down here, and that's to remind you of the common mnemonic, Nassit down here little child, to remember that the mutation in child syndrome is in NSDHL, aka 3 beta hydroxisteroid dehydrogenase. The boy making fart noises while standing next to the recliner is to remind you that the latter lesions favor flexural areas, and the only time you'll see a boy with these syndromes is if he has climb filters. Recall that the later lesions are generally more varucus, and this is shown by the bows that the girl is playing with. The little bean bag that the woman is trying to make the boy sit in is a subtle reminder that patients with child syndrome may also have Ipsilateral organ hypoplasia. Alright, thanks for watching, I'll catch you next time.
