TRANSCRIPT: Cowden's Syndrome
============================================================

Well, Caldé, partner, I hope you're ready for one heck of an amuse in time. In this here sketch the bars low, but the stakes are high. I know, I really butchered that one. Alright, enough of the Calpons, and welcome back. In this sketch, titled the Calpenn Off Highway 10, we'll be discussing the Gino Dermatosis Caldons, which is characterized by a variety of hammer tomas and its abord favor. Let's start with the central hook, the cow, who will represent cowdons. This condition is on a list of disorders that arise in the setting of mutations in the P10 tumor suppressor gene. To remember P10, recall this highway sign that reads P10. But we've also included a sign on the cow pen that reads the P10 cow pen. Aside from cowdons, other syndromes that result from mutations in P10 include new nuns, Benayan, Riley, Rulvacaba, and rare cases of proteus syndrome. Because of this, many of these disorders share overlapping features and are good to include on your differential whenever you're considering one of these diagnoses. We'll get to those conditions in future sketches, but for now, let's take stock of the features seen in cowdons. Just and foremost, cowdons is another condition seen on our differential of conditions that present with multiple facial papules, namely triculomamas. Or, as I like to say, triculomumas. To represent this, you'll notice that the cow has our recurring facial papules and is uttering mu in the text box for triculomumas. While triculomumas are common, they're not exclusive to cowdons. However, sclerotic fibromas are almost exclusive to cowdons, and to represent sclerotic fibromas, we'll add a big pile of sclerotic straw or hay here on the ground. Seeing as I grew up on a cattle ranch, I would be remiss if I didn't take a moment to explain that a cow specifically refers to a female cattle, so we've given our cow an adorable calf standing next to her. Notice that this calf is just learned to walk, and seems to be wobbling as he makes his way to this food trough full of what appears to be Caesar salad. This calf is to represent Lermite du Closed Disease, which is due to dysplastic ganglia citoma in the cerebellum and is a pathonomana criterion for cowdons. Patients with this unfortunate disease develop ataxia and seizures, which are shown by the wobbling ataxia calf and the trough full of Caesar salad. Take a look at the rancher, leaned up all Matthew McConaughey like on the fence. Now that is what I call a 10 gallon hat. This exuberantly large 10 gallon hat is to remind you that these patients are prone to hydrocephalus and cranio-emigally. It's a scientific fact that cows love bananas. These bananas that he's holding are here to remind you of banana and rylee rofacaba, but did you notice that these bananas are a little bruised? This is because patients with both cowdons and BRR share the finding of penile lentiginies. I think the imagery will be enough to explain the hook, but let's add some mud to his pants over the groin just to be safe. Our cowboy isn't blind though. He knows not all cows like bananas, and he brought a bucket of oats just in case. Too bad it's got a hole in it and is dropping the oats debris on the ground. Recall from our Ick Theosis and PPK sketches that debris scattered on the ground should remind you of Palmer planter keratiderma, which is also seen in cowdons. Wait a minute, maybe our cowboy is blind. Those cool red sunglasses, they're to remind you of ocular involvement seen with patients with cowdons. In this case, it's myopia and angioid streaks. Let's take a sidebar and add a little extra dermnomonic to this sketch to remind you of the differential for angioid streaks. We'll place these hooks in the background along the highway. Some of you may be familiar with a popular pneumonic Pepsi light, which stands for Sudo-Zanthoma Elasticum, Ellers Danlos, Penacillamine, Paget's Disease of the Bone, Sickle Selenemia, Idiopathic, Lead Poisonin, Increased Phosphate, Thalassemia, Tuberus Sclerosis, and Epilepsy. No wonder we made a pneumonic for it. So we'll play off of this and add this Pepsi light truck with a Pepsi extra logo on it being chased by an angioid for angioid streaks. Pepsi extra should remind you of PXE. Notice that the android is holding a sickle and has a pencil for his man droid parts. These represent sickle selenemia and penacillamine. Also, use the pencil to recall lead. Furthermore, his antenna are phosphate molecules for hyperphosphatemia, and he's carrying a knapsack made from a bone for Paget's Disease of the Bone. And there's an inner tube with roses growing from it for tuberous sclerosis. But enough of that, back to the main sketch. If you've got food, you have to have water, right? Sure enough, and you might notice this rubber duck is floating in the water trough. We'll use a rubber duck anytime we want to remind you of lipomas, which are another cutaneous finding of cowdons. In true rancher fashion, our cowboy has some very large boots on, and you may notice the ground he's standing on has a cobblestone appearance. These hooks are to remind you of large hands and feet, and the cobblestone appearance seen on the lips and mucosal surfaces. Lastly, acro-cordons are often seen in patients with cowdons, so we've brought back our acro-cordon fruit tree with these fleshy dangling fruits and placed it near the cowboy. While in Durham, you'll be expected to recognize cowdons based on the cutaneous findings. In clinical practice, the systemic complications are what really make this condition relevant, and we'll show these with this billboard placed off the highway for the P10 Casino, which reads, bet on the best seafood in town. The bet is to remind you of the most common cancers associated with cowdons, breast, endometrial and thyroid. But in case that's not enough, we've decorated the sign and shown a waiter delivering a delicious crab dinner to this swimsuit model. Of course, the crab should remind you of cancer, and notice that the waiter is wearing a thyroid bow tie for thyroid cancer, and the model's large breasts and red swimsuit over her breasts and pelvis should remind you of breast and endometrial cancer. Lastly, these patients are prone to hammer-tomatis polyps of the GI tract. I like that an octopus looks like a polyp, so we've included that on the sign. But you'll also notice this oddly colon-shaped hose dripping poo water with an array of different types of hammers next to it. That is to remind you of colon hammer tomas. The dominoes on the sign are just a subtle reminder that cowdons is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. I think we've milked this sketch for all that it's worth, but let's run through those hooks one last time. Recall that cowdons is caused by mutation in P10, as shown by the highway P10 sign. Cowdons is one of many genome-derms with facial papules, specifically tricula mamas, or tricula mumas. Another important feature of cowdons is sclerotic fibromas, as pictured by a big pile of sclerotic straw. Our cute little wobbly calf is to remind you that lermite declose disease, which is due to dysplastic ganglia citoma in the cerebellum, serves as pathonomonic criterion for cowdons. These patients develop a taxia and seizures, which is shown by the wobbling a taxia calf and the trough of seizure caesarsalid. Our rancher with his super-large 10-gallon hat is to remind you that these patients are prone to hydrocephalus and cranio-megaly. The bruise bananas he's feeding are cowdons cows, serve as a double hook to remind you of banana and riley rubacalva syndrome. Another disorder also due to P10 mutation, as well as penile lentigines, seen in both BRB and cowdons. Notice that he's holding the bananas over his groin to really drive that point home. In case the cows don't eat the bananas, he's also brought some oats that he has spilled on the ground. The scattered debris of the oats is a recurrent hook for PPKs, which are seen in cowdons. Our rancher also has on his super-cool red sunglasses, a recurrent hook for ocular findings. In the case of cowdons syndrome, these are myopias and angiode streaks. Before we move on, let's quickly sum up the angiode streaks differential based on the popular pneumonic Pepsi light, displayed by our Pepsi light truck. Remember that this stands for Sudo-Zanthoma Elastica, Ellers-Danlos, Penicillamine, Paget's disease of the bone, Sickle-Celanemia, Idiopathic, Lead Poisoning, Increased Phosphate, Phalacemia, Tuberus-Schlerosis, and Epilepsy. The Pepsi extra logo is to remind you of PXE, and the Android Chasing is to remind you of angiode streaks. This at the Android is carrying a sickle for sickle-cellanemia, and his... his man-joyed parts. That's a pencil, which is to remind you of penicillamine. You can also remember that pencils are made of lead, to remind you of lead poisoning, as another cause. Furthermore, his antenna are phosphate molecules for hyperphosphatemia, and his knapsack is made from bone for Paget's disease of the bone, and lastly, the inner tube with roses growing on it is our recurrent hook for tuberous sclerosis. Alright, back to the summary of the main sketch. Another common finding in cowdons are lipomas. Represented by a recurrent hook for lipomas are cute little rubber duck in the pond. Our rancher in the extra-large boots walking on the cobblestone path is to remind you of large hands and feet, and the cobblestone appearance seen on the lips and mucosal surfaces. Lastly, acro-cordons are best seen in patients with cowdons, as shown by our acro-cordon fruit tree with these fleshy dangling fruits, and we've placed it near the cowboy. That sums it up for the cutaneous findings. Now let's hit the high points of the systemic manifestations of cowdons, which are highly testable and displayed on the Billboard advertisement for Casino, which reads, bet on the best seafood in town. The bet is to remind you of the most common cancers associated with cowdons, breast, endometrial, and thyroid. The crab should remind you of cancer, notice that the waiter is wearing a thyroid bow tie for thyroid cancer, and the model's large breasts and red swimsuit over the breast and pelvis should remind you of breast and endometrial cancer. These patients are also prone to hammer-to-matis polyps of the GI tract, and to remind you, we've placed an octopus on the sign to resemble a polyp, and there's the oddly colon-looking hose dripping poo water with an array of different types of hammers next to it to remind you of colon hammer tomas. The dominoes are to remind you that this condition is autosomal dominant. Alright, well that's all I got for today. Thanks for stopping by Highway P10. I'll see you next time.
