TRANSCRIPT: Cryoglobulinemia
============================================================

Oh, a goblin is cold! Speaking of goblins, this sketch titled Cryogoblins Cave will cover cryoglobulinemias types 1 through 3, which will each be depicted by a cryogoblin. Cryoglobons are immunoglobin present in the serum and plasma that reversibly precipitate at cooler temperatures due to changes in their molecular configuration. You should note that cryoglobons are distinctly different from cold agglutinins, which are antibodies that promote red blood cell agglutination with cold exposure. The resultant clinical findings seen in cryoglobulinemia are a result of two pathogenic processes, occlusion, or immune complex mediated leukocytoclastic vasculitis, hence why we've included this sketch in the vasculitis section of the course. Now let's get started by introducing our first cryogoblin. He's wearing our recurrent cryoparca and has a one sword on his hip for cryoglobulinemia type 1. Notably, cryoglobulinemia type 1 is usually due to an underlying B cell lymphoprolyphritive disorder or plasma cell discrasia. To help you remember this, recall that our first goblins happens to be carrying a rucksack that suspiciously looks like a letter B, and its full of limes to remind you of B cell lymphoprolyphritive disorders. Because the cells are all clones, the antibodies produced are strictly monoclonal and most often IgM. So, notice the large single M shaped icicles in the back for the monoclonal IgM. The resultant manifestations are due to occlusive vasculopathy, not LCV. So remember this vascular look in hose is frozen solid. You might say it's occluded. On histology, you would expect to see vessels occluded with a high-lean material but lacking true LCV. Clinically, type 1 cryoglobulinemia manifests with perperic or necrotic lesions, often with a rediform pattern and involving acral sites. Classically, type 1 presents with levido reticularis, acrocyanosis of the helices, and raynauts phenomenon. Note that reticular literally means net like. These features are shown by the levido reticularis net full of fish that the goblin is holding, the purple discoloration of his helices with little icicles coming off of them, and the recurring raynauts purple gloves and shoes that he's wearing. Okay, so this one certainly is the breadwinner, but the next cryogoblin is the artistic one in the family, and this is certainly his most ambitious work yet. This goblin, who's making a giant two-swan art sculpture, should remind you that this is where we'll discuss type 2 cryoglobulinemia, which is characterized by monoclonal IgM, in addition to polyclonal IgG. We've shown this by placing him near the large monoclonal M icicles, and we'll add some IgG-shaped stakes around the sculpture that he's used into rope-off his masterpiece. Note that unlike type 1, types 2 and 3 cause an antibody-mediated complement fixation and resultant small vessel vasculitis. Because of this, the clinical features closely resemble all other types of LCV, most notably palpable perpera. So, let's give our little artistic goblin some palpable perpera polka dots. And for additional findings seen in LCV, see our small vessel vasculitis intro sketch. Furthermore, types 2 and 3 share the same associations, with the most notable being hepatitis C and autoimmune connective tissue disease. Man, this guy's really sprucing the place up. Just look at that intricate hepatitis hippo that he carved on the back wall. I would love to have someone artistic to decorate my house, but a character like this doesn't come without drawbacks. I mean, he's just leaving connective tissue ligas all over the floor. What if someone steps on those? Hoorah, talk about a world of pain. Worst of all, it's probably gonna be grandpa. The grandpa goblin hanging out on the right in a recliner will represent cryoglobulinemia type 3. Notice that we've made his recliner resemble our recurrent 3 heart to help you recall this. Type 3 cryoglobulinemia is due to polyclonal IgM and polyclonal IgG. So notice that we've again included multiple IgG-like wooden stakes to barricade off the water, but we've also included numerous M-icycles to remind you that this is polyclonal IgM. Again, types 2 and 3 share the same risk factors and manifestations, so it will include the perpera polka dots on grandpa's parka, but let's also throw in a small vessel vasculitis, small vessel boat, here in the water. Notice that we've given this boat a cool 2 swan figurehead on the bow, and a 3 heart just below it. This is to remind you that both types 2 and 3 present with histologic and clinical features of small vessel vasculitis. Before we wrap up, let's review a few high yield labs. Specifically, in types 2 and 3 you should know that complement will be low, so we've included our recurrent complement change jar here on the table. Furthermore, you should know that you could check cryoglobins, but this test requires special collection and may take a while to result. However, if you want a fast and cheap surrogate, you can check rheumatoid factor, which is positive in types 2 and 3. To recall this, remember this retro rheumatoid factor radio. Grandpa sure does like his dandy tunes, huh? I wonder what frequency even gets into this cave. Let's wrap up this sketch and review the hooks. This sketch takes place in the cryogoblins cave to remind you of cryogloblinemia. Type 1 is usually a result of B-cell lymphoprolypharative disorders, which is shown by his B-shaped rucksack full of limes, and is characterized by monoclonal IgM, which causes an occlusive vasculopathy. So recall the large single IgM icicle in the back, and the hose that is completely occluded. Classic clinical features of type 1 cryogloblinemia include levido reticularis, raynauts phenomenon, and acrocyanosis. These are shown by the fishing net, blue and purple gloves, and frozen ears, respectively. Type 2 and 3 have the same triggers and clinical manifestations, and they're both a result of complement fixation, which results in a small vessel vasculitis. We've shown type 2 with the artistic goblin carving out a two swan from ice. Type 2 is due to monoclonal IgM and polyclonal IgG, hence why we've placed them near the large monoclonal IgM icicle and included multiple IgG stakes that he's put up as a barrier to protect his art. Recall that he has also carved an exquisite hepatitis C hippo on the back wall to remind you that the strongest association is hepatitis C, but autoimmune connective tissue disease can also be associated, and we showed that with the hazardous connective tissue lagoes on the ground. The grandpa goblin and his three heart shaped recliner is the hook for type 3 cryogloblinemia, which is characterized by polyclonal IgM and polyclonal IgG, so you can recall the multiple IgM icicles and the IgG stakes. To remind you that both types 2 and 3 have LCV, we've included our small vessel in the water and given it a cool two swan figurehead and three heart decoration. Lastly, recall that complement will be low by recalling the low complement change jar, and if you're in a pinch, you can check rheumatoid factor instead of collecting cryoglobins because in types 2 and 3, the cryoglobins are rheumatoid factor, and we show this with the retro RF radio the grandpa is listening to. Well, it's been cool, hanging out with you guys, but I'm off to get some hot chocolate. Alright, I'll catch you next time.
