TRANSCRIPT: Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma (CTCL) Overview
============================================================

Today we are covering the beast that is Micosis Vanquates, which is the most common form of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, CT-CL for short, and speaking of beasts, this schedule will take place at Monster's Inc. on the Scarroom floor, where our monsters are strutting their stuff after a hairy day of computing for the all-time, scare record. Now, when I hear my co-sus, I hear Mike. And when I hear Mike, I can't help but think of the one and only, Mike was outskied. Monsters at Monster's Inc can be scary, but Mike is not. Mike is a funny and fun guy. That is why, fun Mike will be a reoccurring symbol for my co-sus fungwaitis. Fun Mike equals Mike Ossus fungwaitis. Got it? Also, even though MF is a lymphoma, it is rarely the cause of death and is generally very manageable. So, like Mike, it's not that scary. My co-sus fungwaitis is the most common cutaneous lymphoma, representing about 50% of all primary cutaneous lymphomas. The diagnosis can be challenging, and is often preceded by various other diagnoses, such as psoriasis, nomular dermatitis, and large plaque paraceriasis, just to name a few. Just a tip. MF can go on pretty much any differential diagnosis, because it can manifest with almost any morphology, so always keep it at the back of your mind for those atypical cases. Notably, my co-sus fungwaitis has a male predominance of about 2-1, which we will remember because Fun Mike is a guy, and it typically arises in mid to late adulthood, with a median age at diagnosis of about 55 to 60 years old. Today, Fun Mike is going to take us on a tour of Monster's Inc. More specifically, he's going to show us around the scare floor, to teach us everything we need to know about the scary topic that is, my co-sus fungwaitis. You can see he is holding a four-shaped flag labeled tour to gather his tour group. This four-shaped flag is to remind you that my co-sus fungwaitis is generally due to a colonial proliferation of CTLA positive, CT4 positive, neoplastic T cells in the skin. However, it's worth noting that there is often an admixture of CT8 positive T cells, especially in patch and plaque stage disease. But these in the immune cells are generally not pathologic, but instead represent the host's antitumal response. Therefore, we will also give Fun Mike some handcuffs that he'll be holding on to the side to remind you of this sign note. Oh, and also just in case any of his tour group gets out of hand. Now typically, patients with classic micosis progress from patch stage to plaque stage, and finally to tumor stage, and we will discuss the various clinical manifestations in a moment. However, in general, initial skin lesions have a predilection for the buttocks and sun-protected sites, also called a bathing suit distribution. Therefore, we will make our Fun Mike extra fun today, depicting him in a speedo. Furthermore, we will make it red, as lesions are often erythematous. As a sign note, one theory for why these sites are favored is that sites that receive UV radiation is that UV radiation decreases immune cell activity, and thus is actually treating or preventing CTCL from affecting these areas. This is also important when we consider treatments for widespread disease, specifically the use of narrow-band UVB. In many cases, the texture of these lesions is often likened to cigarette paper, as they have a wrinkled atrophic appearance. Fun Mike smoking a cigarette would not be Pixar approved, therefore we will add some toilet paper hanging out of a speedo, which seems more characteristic of Fun Mike. We will add to his humor by showing him scratching his monster butt to demonstrate that the classic symptom associated with mycosis funquities is paritis, which is the most common and most debilitating symptoms of patients with MF, and is reported by 66% of patients. Now let's discuss the various morphologies you might encounter when diagnosis and treating MF in practice. Mycosis funquities is characterized by heterogeneous, cutaneous manifestations, including patches, plaques, and tumors. Furthermore, it can even rarely present with generalized erythroderma, alopecia, and papules. Most commonly though, patients generally have many years of non-specific eczema-tus or psoriathiform skin lesions, and non-diagnostic biopsies. Skin lesions are traditionally classified into patches, plaques, and tumors. However, patients may have simultaneously more than one type of lesion. We will depict these stages at the three level champions podiums for our scare leaderboard champions. Note that the most common form is the patch form, and will generally progress through the various stages from patch to plaque to tumors. And we'll remind you of this by putting the hooks for these forms in order from right to left, starting with our second runner up here on the thinnest podium, which will symbolize patch stage, with his large patch. Most patch lesions are large, more than five centimeters in diameter, similar to this large patch this monster was awarded. These lesions have fine scale, hence why we chose a Scaly lizard monster to represent this form, and may show variable degrees of atrophy. With progression, more infiltrated reddish browns scaling plaques develop. These may have an annular, polycyclic, or horseshoe-shaped configuration. plaques stage will be represented by our first runner up in the scare competition, who was awarded a plaque. Of note, many patients do not progress beyond the patch or plaques stage, but a small minority may progress to tumor stage. Tumor stage disease will be shown by our first place winner, who is, of course, Sully, who has won a tumor of atrophy. Patients with a tumor stage MF typically also have patches and plaques in addition to tumors, and you can use Sully's pink spots or patches to remind you of this. Therefore, if the patient only has skin tumors without preceding or concurrent patches or plaques, you should consider other diagnoses before CTCL. Notably, the neoplastic T cells in tumor stage MF are derived from CT for positive T cells, with a TH2 cytokine profile, which stimulates the production of IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10. It has been suggested that patch and plaques stage mycosis funguides exhibit a TH1 type cell-mediated cytokine profile, such as IL-2 and interferon gamma. Whereas tumor stage mycosis funguides and cesare syndrome expresses a TH2 type profile. To remind you of this, we will add a toy two-shaped swan that Sully is using to entertain Boo. In contrast, an early stage mycosis funguides, a.k.a patch and plaques stage, the T cell infiltrate is composed of both malignant CT-4 positive, and reactive CT-8 positive T cells, with a dominant TH1 cytokine pattern. We will have our patch and plaques stage monsters holding one-shaped swords to help you remember this. To summarize, an advanced tumor stage eletions, an incestory syndrome, there is a gradual increase in CT-4 positive T cells, and a switch to a TH2-dominated microenvironment. This suggests a loss of CT-8-mediated immunity and anti-tumor response with disease progression. The increased production TH2 cytokines interleukin IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13 is concurrent with a decrease in the expression of TH1 factors, such as interferon gamma and IL-12. Now that we've covered the most common clinical manifestations, we will quickly review the histopathology highlights by adding memory hooks on the podiums below the patch, plaques, and tumor stage monsters. i.e. what lies below microscopically. We will start with the patch stage. Early patch lesions and MF show superficial band-like or light annoyed infiltrates, consisting primarily of lymphocytes. As always, we will use alymes to represent lymphocytes, and we'll draw a superficial band-like infiltrate of limes, aka lymphocytes, in the middle of the podium. Even though we don't have a specific hook for this, try to use the limes here, and the fact that it is a lymphoma, to remind you to always check the lymph nodes. In your patients with MF, it's just good practice. As you can see, we chose to add this line of limes of right smack dab in the middle of the podium, the midpoint of the podium. That seems to have a darker purple color on top, and pink color below. Represents the dermal epidermal junction, pink representing dermis, purple representing epidermis. In the patch stage, the lymphocytes characteristically colonize the basal layer, and line up along the dermal epidermal junction, often having an interface appearance. While it takes time to learn how to interpret nuclear features, they'll eventually be able to identify these lymphocytes by their atypical appearance, with highly convoluted, serreperform, or hyperchromatic nuclei. We will add some large blue fruit stickers to the limes to signify the large hyperchromatic nuclei seen in the neoplastic T cells. As mentioned earlier, mycosis vanquities is on the inner face dermatitis differential, and specifically causes a vacular interphase dermatitis, with a lymph in every hole. In other words, each lymphocyte is surrounded by vaculated halos, often in a linear distribution along the dermal epidermal junction. So just like our sketch for PLEVA, let's give these monsters some lymphocyte limes that they're eating, to remind you that MF is on the lymph in every hole differential. Finally, we'll wrap up patch stage with a pink bow below the limes to represent sclerosis of the palpillary dermis. The pink color of the bow will remind us of the thin band of sclerosis that occurs just below the dermal epidermal junction in mycosis vanquities. Histologically, the plaque stage of mycosis vanquities is characterized by more pronounced epidermal tropism. The epidermal tropism is so prominent that the atypical lymphocytes create nests within the epidermis. The intra epidermal nests of atypical cells are termed potriets abscesses. We will remind you of the term potriet by adding some pots full of limes, which is essentially what the term describes, clumps of lymphocytes. Furthermore, plaques will also have a more pronounced to dermal infiltrate, so we will add more limes extending closer to the bottom of the podium, i.e. deeper into the dermis. Now let's move on to tumor stage, represented by Sully, who has one this tumor of a trophy after being on top of the scler leaderboard. Interestingly, the degree of epidermal tropism is usually greater in patch stage mycosis vanquities compared to tumor stage. In fact, a epidermal tropism may no longer be present at all. Therefore, we will not add any limes to the uppermost or superficial part of the podium. Dermal infiltrates, however, may involve the entire dermis and extend into the subcutaneous tissue. Therefore, we will have lined occupying what would be the entirety of the dermis and subcue. Finally, while on the topic of tumor stage, MF, it is important to note that this has the potential to undergo large cell transformation. This is defined by the presence of cells that are large, exceeding 25% of the infiltrate or forming microscopic nodules. The definition of a large cell is defined as those that are four times larger than a small lymphocyte. Large cell transformation should be considered with new nodules, with a long standing patch, or with the rapid development of scattered nodules or tumors. These should be biopsied, as the diagnosis may warrant a change in therapy. Additionally, whether these cells are CD30 positive or CD30 negative will also change the prognosis and treatment choices with CD30 positive patients having a much better prognosis. We will represent large cell transformation above the podium by having celly lift boo up to make her feel big and large. We will remind you of the criteria for large cell transformation being greater than 25% of the infiltrate by giving one of celly's polka dots under boo a quarter wedge in blue instead of pink. To prompt you that CD30 staining is important in determining the prognosis and treatment for large cell transformation, we will give a three-shaped heart balloon to booze and show her wearing a zero-shaped crown to signify the number 30. Remember, overall, CD30 positive patients having much better prognosis than the CD30 negative patients. So, notice that boo is smiling and happy because she is rocking the CD30 positive symbols. While we are on the topic of pathology, we will briefly mention immunofinotiping. Immunofinotiping is used to support or confirm results of the routine histology. In general, mature T cell markers include CD2, CD3, CD5, and CD7. Lack of one or more of these markers indicates immature cells and suggests lymphoma. MF typically expresses CD2, CD3, CD4, and CD5, but loses expression of CD7 and CD8. We will show the loss of CD7 and CD8 with a lost and found area in the corner labeled Lost CDs. It looks like someone lost a seven-broom ring JoJo Siwa CD, as well as an eight handcuffs jailhouse rock CD. Now, if JoJo Siwa doesn't ring a bell, maybe it shouldn't. But if you want to listen to an obnoxiously catchy but poorly written song, check out boomerang by JoJo Siwa. And no, we don't receive any commissions for endorsing this song. It's also worth noting that you'll need to know a lot more about the immunofinotiping for the boards. Because various special subtypes also have special immunofinotipes that will cover in another sketch. But for the purposes of this general overview, the most notable features of CD7 and CD8. So, don't forget it. In general, immunofinotiping is usually a little help early in diagnosis, because there is typically no loss of T cell antigens in the patch stage. Furthermore, loss of CD7 is not specific, and may be seen in benign causes of chronic T cell stimulation. So it's not a reliable marker that you've been hanging your hat on. Even more frustrating is the fact that there are rare subtypes of MF that include expression of CD8, but not CD4. But let's quickly wrap up this sketch with the summary of the hooks. Front and center is Fun Mike, who represents mycosis funguides. Mycosis funguides is the most common cutaneous lymphoma, representing about 50% of all primary cutaneous lymphomas. The diagnosis can be challenging, and it is often preceded by various other diagnosis. He's holding up a foreflag to remind you that it's predominantly CD4 positive lymphocytes. But the eight handcuffs on his side should remind you that CD8 positive T cells may also be present, but they're a side process, i.e. the host immune response. Mike's wearing a speedo to remind you of the classic bathing suit distribution, and the speedo is red, because early lesions are generally herithymitis. The toilet paper hanging from the speedo is to remind you that atrophy is often present, especially in long-standing lesions, and he's scratching his butt because MF is generally itchy. The monsters on the podium represent the most common variants, starting with patch on the right, then plaque, then tumor. The first lizard monster with a patch on his chest, and pronounced scales, is to remind you of the patch stage with fine scales. The second monster with his plaque should remind you of the ticker red brown in deraded plaques. The celly holding histori is to remind you of tumor stage. Note that celly is holding a two-swant-to-wage to remind you that tumor stage is driven by TH2 cytokines, but the other monsters are holding one swords, because they are driven by TH1 cytokines. The limes on the podiums represent the lymphocyte infiltrate, which occurs in different areas in each form of the disease. In patch, it's generally the DEJ, hence why the limes separate to the top purple part of the podium, from where the pink lower part, and the palpillary dermis, is often sclerotic, as shown by the pink ribbon. In plaque MF, there are characteristicly poultryase micro-appsesses, which are interdermal in the nests of atypical lymphocytes, and we show this with the pots of limes. In general, the lymphocytes of plaque stage MF are generally lower in the dermis, so the limes are placed lower on the podium. In tumor stage MF, the lymphocytes make completely spare the epidermis, but they often fill the dermis, and even the sub-Q, so the limes on the third podium are filling the lower portion of the podium. For call that all lymphs in MF have dark, atypical, so re-perform nuclei, so all the limes have a dark brain-shaped fruit sticker on them. And if the vacular interface is present, there's often a lymph in every hole, so we've given all of our monsters a lime to eat. Notably, in tumor stage, some cases may undergo large cell transformations, defined by at least 25% of lymphocytes, that are greater than four times the size of other lymphocytes present. For call, Sully making boo large by holding her up and is polka dot with one fourth of it, being a different color. When large cell transformation is present, it's important to order immunofenotyping to evaluate for the presence or absence of CD30, remember that boo is holding a three-heart balloon and wearing a zero crown, and that she's happy and smiling because when CD30 is positive, it's a good prognostic sign. Lastly, with regards to immunofenotypes, in most run-of-the-mill cases, the lymphocytes will retain CD2, CD3, CD4, and CD5. But they will lose CD7 and CD8, so we've included the lost CD sign, with the JoJoCYD, with a 7-Bumerying and a Jailhouse Rock CD, with 8 handcuffs, to remind you that CD7 and CD8 are lost. Well, that does it for this sketch, you German stars. Be sure to stay tuned for the sequel to this sketch to learn about the special variants of CTCL. Copy next time!
