TRANSCRIPT: Cutaneous B-Cell Lymphomas
============================================================

Welcome to the beekeeping farm, a unique place where the buzzing world of bees helps us understand the bee cell lymphomas. Our journey begins on Route 79, which represents CD79A, which is usually positive in bee cell lymphomas. This sign tells us that we're 20 miles into the path, reminding us that bee cell lymphomas are also CD20 positive. And take a look at that follicular plant, resembling hair coming out of a follicle. This represents primary cutaneous follicle center bee cell lymphoma. This is also known as cross-deal lymphoma, which is represented by the cross on this bee keepers back. And notice how he took his helmet off and got stung by a bee on his head. This represents that primary cutaneous follicle center cell lymphoma usually affects the scalp, forehead or back. He's giving a thumbs up to represent that this is usually associated with an excellent prognosis. On histology, we would expect this lymphoma to be BCL6 positive, and we brought back our number rhyming system to help you remember this. To represent BCL6, we have a stack of sticks forming a six. They have plenty of building material and also plenty of rules. Check out this sign saying that there's no children between the ages of 14 and 18 allowed. This represents that primary cutaneous follicle center bee cell lymphoma usually lacks the T1418 IgH BCL2 translocation. This translocation is usually seen in the systemic follicular lymphoma. They got plenty of wood, but they don't allow any tin cans. The absence of tin cans represents absent, tingeable body macrophages on histology. Whoa, is that a bee or a keeper? This beekeeper with a big buckle represents the buckle score, which correlates with the severity of the bee cell lymphomas. Think about it this way. The higher this buckled beekeeper swings that hammer, the higher the score will be. Keeping this in mind, the lymphomas with a low buckle score will have decreased severity and a better prognosis. On the other hand, those with a high buckle score will have higher severity and a worse prognosis. The lymphomas with BCL2 positivity are the least severe and have the best prognosis. The one that's BCL6 positive is right in the middle, and the one that's BCL6 and BCL2 positive, which we can think of as BCL8 has the worst prognosis and is the most severe. We already covered primary cutaneous follicle center lymphoma, which is BCL6 positive. Now let's get to the others. Take a look at this hitchhiking beekeeper on the margin of the road, representing primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma. Notice his purple polka dot outfit, representing that clinically these present as purple to brown nodules on the upper extremities or trunk, which is why his upper half of the body is larger than the bottom half. He's also giving a thumbs up to represent that this BCL lymphoma has an excellent prognosis. He has a special bee with him, one that's wearing a monocle, to represent mono cytoid bee cells that are present on histology in this condition. These are small lymphocytes with a clear halo around them, as shown by the halo on top of the bee. We also see numerous plasma cells on histology, which is a major clue to the lymphoma. Plasma cells are represented by the chocolate chip cookies that he's holding, because plasma cells kind of look like chocolate chip cookies under the microscope. Notice that these are Dutch cookies to represent that Dutcher bodies may also be seen on histology. This beekeeper is willing to pay $2 for a ride. That $2 bill represents that primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma is BCL 2 positive. Up next we have primary cutaneous diffuse large B cell lymphoma, leg type, which is shown by this woman with a large bee sting on her leg. She's old to represent the common demographic which is affected by this lymphoma, which is usually the elderly. She's also a female representing that females are more commonly affected. Notice the sad expression on her face, symbolizing that this condition has a less favorable prognosis with five-year survival around 50%. She also has a sheet over her legs to represent the histological findings of sheets of large atypical lymphocytes. Notice the design of rotten limes on the sheet. This is a reminder of the sheets of lymphocytes under the microscope that are markedly atypical, hence why they're rotten. Since she's sad with a worst prognosis, can you guess which buckle markers will be positive? This lymphoma is associated with buckle 2 and buckle 6 positivity. And remember this has the highest buckle score indicating the worst prognosis. To help you remember that this condition is both BCL 2 and BCL 6 positive, we place the woman in the middle of the road between the $2 bill representing BCL 2 positivity and the sticks forming a 6 representing BCL 6 positivity. Don't forget that sad expression on her face. This badge that says number 1 mom represents that this lymphoma is also mum 1 positive. Sheesh, the outside world is depressing. Let's go inside this gated area where the beekeeper is using a hose. The beekeeper with a hose inside the gate represents intravascular BCL lymphoma, where the hose represents the vascular portion of the name. He has a purple bruise on his thigh representing the clinical presentation of purple patches and plaques on the trunk and thighs. He's wearing a brain hat since this lymphoma is usually associated with systemic involvement, classically involving the central nervous system. Is he watering the sign? This guy is really confused. The confusion represents that CNS involvement may result in neurological deficits. And he's watering the 20 mile sign to symbolize that on histology we would expect to see large atypical CD20 positive bee lymphocytes within the vessels, hence the hose. Time for a quick wrap up of this graphic. We're at a bee farm to represent the BCL lymphomas. The root 79 sign represents that these are typically CD79A positive. The 20 mile marker represents CD20 positivity. The follicular plant represents primary cutaneous follicle center BCL lymphoma. And the cross on the beekeeper's back represents the other name, which is cross-de-wymphoma. Notice how he took his helmet off and got stung by a bee on his head. This represents that this condition usually affects the scalp, forehead, or back. The sticks forming a six symbolizes BCL-6 positivity in this condition. The sign prohibiting children 14 to 18 years of age represents the absence of the T14-18 translocation. And the lack of 10 cans represents the absence of tangible body macrophages on histology. The big buckle beekeeper represents the buckle severity score, with higher buckle scores indicating worse prognosis and lower buckle scores representing better prognosis. The hitchhiking beekeeper on the margin of the road represents primary cutaneous marginal zone lymphoma. And he has purple polka dots on the outfit to represent the clinical presentation of purple to brown nodules. The monical wearing bee represents that on histology we would expect to see mono cytoid bee cells, which typically have a halo around them, hence the halo above the bee. The chocolate chip cookies represent numerous plasma cells that we would see on histology, and they're specifically dutch cookies to represent dutcher bodies that we would also see. The $2 bill represents BCL-2 positivity in this condition. Next up, the woman with a bee sting on her leg represents primary cutaneous diffuse large bee cell lymphoma leg type. She has sheets with rotten limes over her to represent the sheets of atypical lymphocytes that we would see on histology. Her sad expression represents the poor prognosis associated with this condition. And she's in the middle of the road between the BCL-6 and the BCL-2 because this condition is positive for both BCL-6 and BCL-2, which adds up to a buckle score of 8 conferring a worse prognosis, hence the sad expression. Next up, the beekeeper with a hose inside the gate represents intra-vascular BCL lymphoma, and the purple bruise on the thigh represents the purple patches and plaques commonly seen on the trunk and thighs. The brain hat represents CNS involvement, and he's confused to represent the neurological deficits that can often accompany CNS involvement. Finally, he's watering the 20 mile marker to represent CD-20 positivity in this condition. That's all for the bee farm. Time to head over to the river and see what all the buzz is about on the other side. See you there!
