TRANSCRIPT: Cutaneous Mastocytoses
============================================================

Hello and welcome back. This week on Dermnomonics, we're going to talk about the family of mastocytosis. And today, we're tuning in to see what our most affluent yacht family is doing this week on the reality hit, Man vs. the Mast. Between weekends drinking wine, a woman overboard, and modeling trendy nautical fashion, this fancy family is in for a rough ride on a luxurious yacht in today's sketch. Our first hook will set the scene as the mast for mastocytosis. Note that the mast kind of looks like a bone. We'll come back to this at the end of the sketch. Hmm, when looks a little strong today, just take a look at their flag waiting gallantly. Notice how they've chosen to fly the colors of their favorite snack, a Kit Kat. This Kit Kat flag is to remind you that an activating mutation in Seekit is common in many mastocytosis. More specifically, a mutation in the Asphardic acid at position 816, in the vast majority of cases of systemic mastocytosis. The clonality of the pathogenic cells are due to a missense mutation resulting in substitution of Aspartate to Valley in at position 816. Ultimately, this leads to auto activation of the Kit receptor, tyrosine kinase. I don't know about you, but this totally brings me back to the dreaded days of freshman biology. So we've written the serial number D 816 V on the side of the boat to remember the activating mutation is on code on 816 and Aspartic acid D is switched to V Vailing. This is a little detail, so choose to remember it or not. Centered around the mast will cover the three childhood forms of mastocytosis and possible systemic manifestations and to the far left will cover the adult forms. And if it isn't the spoiled fancy son, Sawyer mastocytoma, so solitary and spoiled up in the crow's nest, this kid represents solitary mastocytoma. Sawyer is sporting his trendy top with a yellow three heart on the chest and a single wristband. Solitary mastocytomas typically present as a solitary, tan yellow plaque on a distal extremity. Kind of like his single yellow wristband. The heart should serve to remind you that the criteria for solitary mastocytoma is three or fewer lesions, but it should also remind you that this condition usually self resolves over one to three years. Taken a deep breath of the ocean air. It's a tragedy that this beautiful scenery must be such a bored of him. Unbelievable. He's brought his one swords and throwing a boomerang to entertain himself. The swords and each hand and the seven boomerang are to remind you that the sea kit encodes kit, but test riders will try to throw you off by referring it to as CD 117, which is a signaling molecule displayed on mast cells. One sword, one sword seven boomerang 117 got it. Okay, let's move on. The most dangerous mastocytosis is the rarest form, which we will represent with this rare artsy type kid. Look at him. He's definitely not dressed for a bowdoting notice all his leather, his leather jacket leather pants and he's holding an orange. Super weird and the diffuse cutaneous mastocytosis patients classically present with infiltrated leathery plaques with a coding or on appearance involving large areas of the body. The orange and leather clothing of all the forms diffuse cutaneous mastocytosis is most likely to have systemic symptoms. He also seems bored by this yacht outing and is practicing his balloon animal making. This should remind you that lesions and diffuse cutaneous mastocytosis often blistered you the drastic edema that results from mast cell mediators such as histamine. Listering is not uncommon in patients with the more common forms of mastocytosis known as urdicaria pigmentosa in which one fourth of patients develop some degree of blistering. We've shown him pointing his balloon animal at our next character, Ulysses to remind you of this. Speaking of Ulysses is sitting on the deck next to this cannon and will represent urdicaria pigmentosa, which is the most common form of mastocytosis and childhood. To remind you, we've drawn him holding our recurring number one foam finger. Look at that outfit. He's rocking a sporty tank top with weight, brown polka dots. I can never keep track of the newest trends. Urdicaria pigmentosa is the most common presentation of mastocytosis in children and manifests as multiple light brown to red brown macules and papules that can occur anywhere. But typically their eyes on the trunk, hinge the tank top. This is typically benign and self limited condition, but some patients with urdicaria pigmentosa can develop systemic symptoms. Hmm, he and his brother don't look so good. Ew, what is that brown stuff spilled coffee? I hope there's a poop deck on this ship gross. He just puke all over. Someone's getting seasick. This brown puddle and kid vomiting should remind you of the systemic symptoms of abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. Wow, this show is getting way too dramatic. His poor brother looks like he's having a panic attack. His face is so red and he's holding that inhaler as tight as his rich dad's credit card. The brother should remind you that flushing, asthma, dysmnea and wheezing can be seen. Typically the more cutaneous lesions, the more systemic symptoms. Though rare, some patients may experience anaphylaxis triggering events such as beastings and you should consider providing patients who are old enough with an epiphen in case of emergencies. Oh, M G someone helped that poor girl. Uh, actually I don't feel too bad. She's been drinking and she's breaking the rules. The stimulus wine glass flying through the air is a small hook, but try to remember it. This is to remind you that kit binds to stem cell factor, which promotes survival of mast cells. Additionally, it should remind you that a common exacerbating factor of systemic symptoms is alcohol, which can induce mast cell degradation. Didn't she see the sign that says no running this no running sign with our recurring insides sat base should remind you that insides can also induce mast cell degradation and in general should be avoided by these patients. It's also important to know that extremes of temperature are known to exacerbate symptoms. So we'll include this flaming fuse on the cannon and a large iceberg in the background to remind you of this. Now, before I move on to talk about the adult forms of mast osythosis, it's worth talking briefly about the different histologic stains for mast cells because boards often like the test on this. First, remember the stains tall you mean blue and triptase are remembering the sister and the blue dress in tripping. Also recall that a good lab test to order in patients to evaluate for systemic involvement is triptase. Other notable stains are letter shown by this bucket of lead cannon balls, Jim said shown with this Jim emblem and name on the boat the sea Jim and CD 117 shown with a one sword, one sword seven boomerang in the bucket of lead balls. I've had enough of these spoiled kids. Where's their mom anyway? Oh, relaxing in the back. Here we will talk about the adult forms of mast osythosis. First and foremost, this towel with the red brown polka dots is to represent red and brown macules and papules. Yes, that's actually the name, which is basically just urinary pigmentosa and adults typically presenting with reddish brown macules, papules occurring on the trunk and upper extremities. It is worth noting that the adult variants of mast osythosis are more likely to suffer from systemic symptoms, one of which is bone involvement. So we'll make the mass resemble a bone to remind you to evaluate for bone involvement if there's evidence of systemic disease. In case your answer said why this happens is because mast cells can induce osteoclast activity causing demonarization of bone resulting in osteoporosis and osteoschlorosis. More commonly patients with internal involvement have a pateospinamegaly shown by the oddly live or shape paint job on the boat and the spleen-esque footrest the mom is using. It should go without saying that if you have a pateospinamegaly lymphatinopathy is also to be expected, but we'll get for some earrings like the ones in our tripping girl to remind you of lymphatinopathy. One uncommon but serious complications seen in the adult form of mast osythosis is called organic brain syndrome and manifests with decreased attention and memory as well as changes in affect such as anger, irritability, depression and inability to interact with others. Kind of like this mom trying to get rid of her hangover and avoiding interacting with her kids. To remind you of mixed organic brain syndrome, we've shown the mom with fluffy gray hair that kind of resembles a brain. An exceedingly rare form of mast osythosis is called telangiectasia macularis eruptiva perstance or team up for short. This is shown by the interesting purse next to her. This rare sub variant of the adult form of mast osythosis is characterized by macules and patches composed of telangiectages without significant hyperpigmentation. In general treatment of cutaneous mast osythosis is supportive and if you have to remember one thing, remember anti histamines so we'll include an anti histamine history book the mom is reading as a reminder. That was a long sketch. Let's quickly summarize the key point. Alright, so this sketch begins with a large fancy yacht in the middle of the ocean. The mast represents mast osythosis. The Kit Kat flag represents the sea kit mutation, which is a common activating mutation in mast osythosis. And written on the side of the boat is the serial number D816V. Remember the activating mutation is on code on 16. The first three kids are to represent the three forms of childhood mast osythosis. So your mast osythoma chilling by himself up in the crow's nest is meant to represent solitary mast osythosis. His trendy top and yellow three heart on the chest in a single wristband are to remind you that solitary mast osythomas typically present as a solitary tan yellow plaque on a distal extremity. And the heart should serve to remind you that the criteria for solitary mast osythoma requires there to be three or few religions and usually self resolves over one to three years. The one swords and each hand and seven boomerang are to remind you that the sea kit and code CD 117, which is a signaling molecule displayed on mast cells. The rare artsy kid in the leather jacket is to represent the rarest form, which is diffuse cutaneous mast osythosis. The leather jacket and orange he's holding are to represent the leathery plaques with a poday or on appearance. The balloon animal he's holding is to serve as a reminder that the lesions and diffuse cutaneous mast osythosis often blister and he's also holding it next to you list this to remind you that a fourth of the urinary care pigmentosa patients also have blistering lesions as well. Eulysis who sitting next to the cannon is to remind you of urinary care pigmentosa, which is the most common type of mast osythosis and childhood. Hence why he's holding the number one phone finger the polka dot tank top is to remind you of the multiple light brown to red brown macules and papules that arise on the trunks. Urinary care pigmentosa is typically a benign self limited condition, but some patients develop systemic symptoms. Hence the obviously seasick vomiting kids sitting in a brown puddle of hopefully spilled coffee to remind you of the GI symptoms of abdominal pain nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. His huffing and puffing brother with his inhaler is to remind you of other systemic symptoms such as flushing, asthma, dyspnea and wheezing. The clumsy drunk tripping daughter with her stimulus swine glass who completely ignored the no running sign is to remind you that kit binds to stem cell factor which promotes survival of math cells. Additionally, it should remind you that a common exacerbating factor of systemic symptoms is alcohol which can induce mast cell degradation. The no running sign is our recurring hook for instead which also serves as a trigger for mast cell degradation. Also extremes of temperature represented by the iceberg and flaming can infuse are also triggers. The clumsy drunk tripping daughter also serves as a hook for the highly testable histological stains for mast cells. Her blue dress is to represent tall you mean blue and her tripping represents triptase which also can be ordered as a lab test to test for systemic involvement. Other stains to know are letter shown by the bucket of the lead cannon balls in gym set noted by the C gym emblem in the name of the boat. And lastly the two one swords and boomerang to represent CD 117 which is also an immunohistochemical stain. Now let's move on to summarize the adult forms of mastocytosis. The hungover mom with her polka dot towel represents the adult form of mastocytosis. The towel represents the red and brown macules and papules occurring on the trunk and upper extremities. The adult variant is also more likely to suffer from systemic symptoms as well as bone involvement hence the mass shaped like a bone. More commonly patients with internal involvement have hepatospa and amygdalae shown by the liver shape paint job on the boat and the spleen-esque footrest the mom is using. Lymphatic opathy may also occur represented by her fabulous lymph node earrings. It's also important to note that the same systemic symptoms and kids can also occur in adults. So just glance over to the kid side of the sketch if you need a reminder. Also don't forget that organic brain syndrome is an uncommon but serious complication of adult mastocytosis manifested by anger, irritability, depression and inability to interact with others represented by the mom's gray brain like hairstyle and totally avoiding her kids because of her wine hangover. Her high dollar fashionable to land chick tech purse is to remind you of the exceedingly rare form of mastocytosis called to land chick tasia macularis eruptiva per stands or a team up for short. The mainstay of treatment for mastocytosis is anihistamines represented by the mom's history book. Well, that's all folks tune into man versus mass next week or saw your mastocytoma tragically jumped ship after finding out he didn't get a PS5 for Christmas. Anyways, until next time.
