TRANSCRIPT: Dermnemonics - The Basic Course
============================================================

Well, here we are again, and it's about that time of year. Soon children will be splashing, and the warm summer breeze will be blowing. The hot sizzle of blood vessels, I mean, barbecue will fill the air. Sorry for the 14 slip. I was thinking about the diseases that'll be covered in the sketch, and how they sizzle the small blood vessels. And when I think of sizzling, I picture a summertime backyard barbecue. And that's right, this sketch will be covering the small vessel vascularities, hemorrhagic edema infancy, erythema elevatum diutinum, and granuloma fasciaal. To help you remember that this is a small vessel vascularized sketch, we brought back a recurring small vessel sailboat as part of the background. The sketch will portray acute hemorrhagic edema infancy on the left half of the sketch. But G fasciaal and erythema elevatum diutinum will be portrayed together on the right, because many clinicians often consider these to be different manifestations of the same disease process. Let's get started. Hemorrhagic edema infancy is, well, hemorrhagic, edemidus, and synonympancy. These lesions often form anular, bright red, deviolacious plaques that favor the upper extremities. I like to picture these lesions by thinking about this a demidus inflatable pool with this kiddo playing in it. Notice how the top of the pool is purple to remind you of the violacious color, while the water in the pool is to remind you of the edemidus appearance. I'm sure we've all played in a pool like this at some point. And I remember the most frustrating aspect was the water was only deep enough to reach the nipples, leaving your upper extremities head neck exposed. This kid, with his arms head neck exposed, should remind you of the classic size of involvement of HEI. Also remember that this kid does not look ill, and with HEI, they usually appear relatively healthy. One very classic description of lesions and HEI is having a caucade or anular appearance. And because of this, the lesions are often able to be diagnosed simply by clinical exam. So take a look at the umbrella next to the pool. If you're not sure what a caucade is, that's what a caucade looks like. It's essentially a fancy word for targetoid with scallop borders. Other clinical features of HEI that you should be aware of are that it's most common that age groups of six months to 24 months. Scroodle involvement or scroodle swelling and facial dima. These features will be shown with the other characters on the left hand side of the sketch. First, let's look at the little boy's dad. See how he's in the pool catching a face full of water from the kid's water gun? Notice how the water's puffing up his cheeks? This should invoke a picture of facial dima, which is commonly seen in these kiddos. Also notice in the back of the sketch by the fence, there are two hudums playing putt putt. The girl is holding a recurring six golf club, and there's a two rubber duck next to the four flag to her right. This should remind you of six and 24, six to 24 months. Classic. She's hit that poor boy to right in the nads and he's clearly an indensbade. This is to remind you that that HEI may present a scroodle swelling with pain and males. I bet her name's Carol. Lastly, do you see the mess around the pool? That's right! Our mud should make you think of diarrhea. Like most small vessel vasculitis, HEI can be caused by a number of ideologies ranging from viral, to medications, and even vaccination. And while it's probably not worthwhile to memorize all of them, we'll highlight a few. You'll notice that the logo on the pool reads hippopools, and the hippo is a recurring symbol for hepatitis. In the case of HEI, it's usually hepatitis A. You should know that antibiotics are also common cause. Most commonly septal sporns and beta lactines in general. So we brought back our cephalospor and cephalopod as a toy in the pool. We'll add our beta lactium sunglasses here on the table for good measure. Notice that we've also added our strep-faringitis A to our dad in the pool. That's because strep-faringitis is one of the more common bacterial infections to trigger HEI. These people are crazy! They even hire a lifeguard. You see the sign with a recurring insat sad face that says no lifeguard on duty? That's to remind you that insets are another common trigger. And lastly, do you see the purse that's fallen over and kind of spilling out some very sensitive contents? And there we see! A few of the TMP SMX tampons are falling out. That should remind you that back trim or trim methamphetamine sulfomythoxysol is also a common cause or common trigger of HEI. Again, remember that most viruses that are common in pediatric populations can trigger HEI, such as Coxacky, Epstein's bar, Adnovirus, Rotovirus, HSP, VZV. These aren't all explicitly shown in the sketch. Now let's move on to two other types of acolytes that we'll be covering in the sketch. Aerotherium-elevated diutinum and granulumofacial, which are sometimes considered to be the same disease with different anatomic predelictions. If you recall from our overview sketch, covering small vessel vasculitis, EED was shown by a meditating monk. In my mind, meditation, yoga, pretty much the same thing. So we'll use this elevate yoga mat with this yogi woman to exemplify the important features of EED. Ah, downward dog. Nothing like crippling, debilitating pain in your hammies and knees to bring true enlightenment. The classic lesions of EED are described as red, brown, vialacious, papules and nodules, favoring the extensor services and skin-overlying joints. To remember this, we've given her yoga pants these vialacious stripes on the extensor services as per full patch over her knee or her joint. Furthermore, we've added this bowl of little brown papula-like almonds down by her knee, as to remind you of the brown papules or nodules. Like other forms of small vessel vasculitis, EED can manifest with systemic symptoms, such as arthorologist or ocular symptoms. Here at Dermnomonics, we depict arthorologist with pain bolts by a joint, and ocular symptoms with sweet red sunglasses being worn by characters in sketch. So let's add our pain bolts by the woman's knee and give her some sweet red shades for this bright summer day. They're numerous triggers of EED and will cover several of them, but the one you can't forget is HIV. So we've put her occurring HIV first aid bag front and center by our EED yoga mat. We will show some of the other notable causes with our grill master and adorable sidekick wolf dog. You've dermnomonics should already know that a wolf can only meet one thing. Lupus. Who's your good boy? Sit. Let me wave this fire out and you can have one of these delicious bowel-looking snossages. Yes, the flaming sausages are meant to look like bowel, because inflammatory bowel disease is a common trigger for EED. But what good is a sausage without some sides? Do you see that tuber in his hand? Well, that tuber, or for the layperson, potato, is a hook for tuberculosis. And he looks like he's going to season this delicious meal with some limes. Recall that a lime in the sketch should remind you of lymphoma. Now, I'm no bobby flay, but personally, I think an apple seasoning sauteed to succulent perfection probably would have gone better with this meal. He doesn't have any apples, you say? Well, what do you think about that? Suck it. The apple tree is to remind you that another important association is ITA paraprocinemia, or monoclonal gamopthee. Lastly, remember that group B-strep can be associated, so we've added a recurring lay to our chef, which I think fits quite wonderfully in this chill summertime sketch. Not saying I'm not in the mood for sausages and tuber tater, but I hope he's grown up something a little more filling, something savory and plump, maybe something like, yes! Dapsone dim sum. Treatment of choice for EED is Dapsone. And as you can probably guess, if Dapsone is a treatment of choice, you can probably use culture sheen. Sure enough, here's our charcoal culture scene bag next to his charcoal grill. One quick additional note about EED is a classic finding on histology often described as perivascular, quote, onion skin fibrosis. So we're going to put some onions here by our limes as a subtle hook. Now, should your focus back to our yoga woman? Have you wondered who she is? She's clearly someone's girlfriend, or GF for you hip millennials, but also GF for granuloma fasciaeal. We've depicted the common findings of EED already, and while GFesciaeal may be a related process, it has a predilection for one spot in particular. You get two guesses. The first one doesn't count. Yeah, the face. Classically, GFesciaeal presents as discrete red brown papules, plex or nodules on the face, sometimes giving a poed orange appearance. Don't criticize me for my French pronunciation. So we've added this fruit basket above her head with these nodular oranges and small red berries. Those of you who've seen our sketches on blistered disease are probably thinking, don't berries mean eosinophils? They sure do. And in this sketch, they'll serve two functions, because apart from seeing eosinophils on pathology, they'll also remind you of the small red papules on the face. An important finding in GFesciaeal is follicular accentuation, and we'll portray this with these accentuated grass sprouts that look a bit like hair follicles. Treatment of GF is pretty simple. First lies topical or intralesional steroids. Now, recurring hook for steroids is our hydrocooler, but since this is only local steroids, a little tiny bit, we'll draw this little baby hydrocooler water bottle, knocked over by her face. You should know that GFesciaeal is on the histologic differential for diseases with a gren zone, which is essentially a gap from the epidermist to the start of the inflammatory infiltrate in the dermis. To represent this finding, we'll use a field goal post. Think about it like a gap between the two posts. We've also added this box around as an in zone to remind you of gren zone. Furthermore, you should know that the inflammation seen on histology is mixed. Mixed meaning yes, you can see a scina fills, but you'll also see neutrophils and plasma cells. Our recurring hooks for these cell types will be red berries or raspberries for these scina fills, ants for neutrophils, and chocolate chip cookies for the plasma cells. I like these hooks because they're good descriptors of what the cell types resemble under the scope. Okay, let's wrap this breezy summertime sketch up with the summary of the hooks. Starting with the pool, which represents hemorrhagic dima of infancy, with a vialatious ring and a demeritous water. Remember that the goofy kitty pools leave your top exposed, and so this kid's top half also corresponds to the most common distribution of the lesions. We call that he's spraying the dad in the face and puffing up his cheeks to remind you of facial edema. Most importantly, the classic cacade lesion, which is represented by the table umbrella, which looks like a scalp behind the pool or the hood limps like putt butt. Carol with her six golf club and the two duck four flag which remind you that most commonly, this occurs between ages of six months and 24 months. Now the boy she's hitting nads should remind you that it may be seen on the scrotum and boys. This can be very painful. The common causes of HEI include bacterial infections such as group B strep, or strep pharyngeitis lay, viral infections such as hepatitis A, the hippobool, medications such as beta lactamanovalidic, cephalosporins, trimethypym, sulfamethoxazole, and insets. Shown with our beta sungvases, cephalosporin cephalopod, TMP-SMX tampons, and inset sad face respectively. Remember that there are many other viruses, infections, and even vaccinations that can trigger HEI. Next we cover your thema elevatum diutinum, shown by a woman doing yoga meditation on our elevate yoga mat. This presents with red brown to violations, papules, and plaques over extensive surfaces with a predilection for skin over joints. We've shown this with the brown almonds meant to represent the brown papules by her knee, and the purple pattern on her pants over the extensive surfaces in the big plaque over her knee. This is often associated with arthorragis which is shown by the pain bolts and ocular involvement shown with our red sungvases, one of my characters on that side of the sketch. There are many common causes, but you have to know HEI-V, so the HEI-V first aid bag is front and center. Other causes will be portrayed by the grill guy and his wolf dog. These are lupus and flamethrower bowel disease, tuberculosis, lymphoma, or hematologic limb ligand disease in general, and importantly, IgA monoclonal gameopathy. The wolf for lupus, flaming bowel-shaped sausages for IBD, Limes for lymphoma, and the apple tree for monoclonal IgA gameopathy. Don't forget the tuberculosis tuber. Treatment of choice is DAP-Some, and it's shown by our DAP-Some DIMP-Some. And this, of course, means culture seems also a treatment, and it's shown by our culture scene charcoal. The classic fighting on histology is onion skin-fipe process around vessels, so remember the onions on the table with the limes. G-Face-Yale is thought to be the same disease as EED with different anatopic predeliction by some. So we've chosen to exemplify G-Face-Yale with the girlfriend in the sketch. But the hooks are positioned near her face. G-Face-Yale presents with erythemidus, papules, and plaques on the face, which may give a poed at orange appearance with follicular accentuation. This is shown with our fruit basket with red papule berries and oranges being surrounded by falco-looking grass sprouts. Additionally, the red berries represent eocinophils, because the infiltrate of GF is a mixed infiltrate of eocinophils, neutrophils, and plasma cells. So we've also added the ants to remind you of neutrophils, and the chocolate chip cookies to remind you of plasma cells. G-Face-Yale is treated with topical or intralesional steroids. So remember the small hydrocooler water bottle. Finally, remember the G-Face-Yale is on the grand zone histologic dimfurential diagnosis. So remember the goalpost in the zone? Now, go get yourself some juicy sausage, some dim sum, some friends to kick the summer off right. Catch you next time.
