TRANSCRIPT: Dermatomyositis - Antibodies and Associated Features
============================================================

Welcome adventurers and feast your eyes on an epic adventure of magic and wits at the annual Master of Dungeons Association tournament. Welcome back. In this sketch titled The Dungeon Master's Dilemma, we will be covering the most high-yield auto-antibodies seen in Dermato-miocytus and the unique clinical features associated with each. In general, Dermato-miocytus is an auto-inflammatory disease associated with a wide variety of clinical features and muscle weakness. Because of the well-described cutaneous and systematic manifestations, in conjunction with relatively specific antibodies, which are becoming a more heavily emphasized part of clinical practice, this Dermato-miocytus is a favor for the boards. But enough of that. Now who's ready to roll the dice? Of the 12-sided variety, of course. Our central hook will be our dungeon master, who can be seen glaring ominously from behind his dungeon board. The first unique group of cutaneous findings we'll discuss is known as anti-synthetase syndrome, and will be shown on the right-hand side next to the dungeon master, the Elven Orch Slayer Joe, who will represent the first auto-antibody, anti-Joe-1. Notice how he has a name tag, which reads Joe, to help remember Joe-1. However, Joe-1 is only one of several key TRNA synthetases associated with anti-synthetase syndrome, including anti-PL7, anti-PL12, and anti-OJ. So, notice that Joe has come prepared with his seven boomerang equipped on his hip, his own custom 12-sided dice, and a glass of OJ on the table in front of him, to remind you of PL7, PL12, and OJ respectively. As mentioned before, these are all TRNA synthetases, and the resultant clinical features are known as anti-synthetase syndrome, which includes severe interstitial lung disease, arthritis, myocytis, mechanics hands, and Raynaud's phenomenon. Yeah, cotton! If the OJ can roll at 7 or higher, he'll defeat the mechanic Orch. Probably the most heavily tested of the above synthums is the mechanics hands, and we will use the mechanics wrench being wielded by the Orch to remind you of mechanics hands. However, you should know as a clinician that the aspects that cause the highest morbidity and mortality are the arthritis, myoges, and pulmonary involvement. Recall that Joe has said in awkwardly, so it appears that he has heard his knee. Notice the red pain bolts, which is our recurrent hook for our throches, but in this case, it's for myoges. Also, recall that he is holding the recurrent pulmonary involvement in hailer, but if that's not enough, we'll give him and the Orch both these suspiciously lung-shaped vests. Lastly, check out his shoes, aside from being impossible to keep clean, we've given them blue toes in order to help you remember Raynaud's syndrome. Oh, wrenching blow, cotton. It seems Joe's role came up as a one, and even with his substantial charisma boost, his mom will be taking that elf back to Oscar Giliath early. Our next character is undoubtedly the favorite champion, with a strength bonus of plus 16. He is anything but weak. This musclehead at the end of the table will represent a myopathic dermatomyocytus, which has many of the classic cutaneous findings, but patients typically lack myocytus. To go along with our musclehead, we've added a figurine of his hero on the table, which is made to resemble Goku from Dragon Ball Z. Why Goku? Well, you show me someone who says that they're stronger than Goku, and I'll show you a dirty liar. Notably, the same antibodies associated with amyopathic dermatomyocytus are also associated with cancer associated DM, so we've added our recurring cancer crab as a monster for our champion to fight. Note that the most common cancer associated is ovarian cancer, and this is often tested, but in general when making a diagnosis of dermatomyocytus, you should always roll out an underlying malignancy. The specific antibodies associated with these forms of dermatomyocytus are anti-P155-140, which target transcriptional intermediary factor 1 gamma. Before we add the hooks, let's add our next character. This small girl observer who is just shocked that Joe has already been eliminated. To make things worse, that meathead has spilled milk all over her. This child will represent childhood onset dermatomyocytus, which is often associated with cutaneous calcinosis, which is shown by the milk being spilled on her. We took a step back because childhood DM with calcinosis is associated with P140, so instead of adding three additional hooks, we've chosen to remind you of P155 and 140 with the one sword neck on our meathead and the two five maracas on the table for 155, and we have the one sword on the table, four flag in the girl's hand, and zero crown on her head for 140. It is important to note that P155-140 is not the same as P140, which encodes NXP2. Now that guy is strong, but don't count out the next player, who is known by the name Magic Mike due to his unbelievable and seemingly magic comebacks. Mike, who is adorned in wizard robes, will serve as the hook MI2 auto-antibodies. It's no wonder how he got his name. His character has taken a play right out of Greek mythology and transformed into a two swan to elude his enemies. This two swan figurine will serve to reinforce MI2. Yeah, I sure do like swans, Cotton. Notably, MI2 is a helicase, and if you recall from our sketch covering Werner and Bloom's syndromes, we'll portray a helicase with a helic shaped turn style, like this one, which will prevent the unwanted from entering their layer. Anti-MI2 Dermatomyocytus is really only notable because it has a good prognosis, and that's why Mike is smiling and giving a thumbs up. Now I know what you're thinking. How can there be a dungeon raid without a dwarf? Well, fret not my little halfling. Our next character is our fearless dwarf and is positioned on the left side of the table by the dungeon master. You might notice that this poor hero has been slain by the serpent of doom. The serpent of doom is meant to represent anti-SRP antibodies, and like our dwarf, they're often short. Lived. They're short lived. Anti-SRP antibodies are associated with fulminant disease, with cardiac involvement, and very poor prognosis. So notice the vaguely heart-shaped pool of blood by the fallen dwarf and soldier, and how the dwarf players hold in a heart as if it was ripped out of his own chest. Meanwhile, the camera guy is just chilling in the background by his master of Dungeons Association poster, or MDA for short, taking all of this in. This cameraman by the MDA sign with a 5 Maraka is to remind you of anti-MDA5 antibodies, which are sometimes referred to as anti-Catum 140. Note that Catum is an acronym for clinically amyopathic Dermatomyocytus. Despite not playing, he's a huge fan of the game and is brought as one sword, four flag, and zero crown to cheer the heroes on, which is to help your call Catum 140. Clinically, anti-MDA5 Dermatomyocytus presents with classic cutaneous features of Dermatomyocytus, such as gothrins, papules, mechanics hands, poicular derma, etc. But it will lack myocytus and has rapidly progressive interstitial lung disease. So notice that we've drawn our cameraman so he is quote, fat, but jacked, to remind you that they're amyopathic. We've also given him some ball and medieval jolt rings to remind you of gothrins, papules, a toolbox full of wrenches for mechanics hands, and another stylish yet peculiar lung-shaped vest. However, because it's important to differentiate the rapidly progressive ILD associated with anti-MDA5, we'll give our cameraman a pocket watch dangling from his vest pocket. Alright, now I know that was a lot of minutia. So let's review the hooks one more time. The central hook to remind you of Dermatomyocytus is our dungeon master. Next to him on the right is Joe for anti-Joe antibodies. Joe has a seven boomerang, 12-sided dice, and glass of OJ to remind you of the other synthetases that are less commonly targets, PL7, PL12, and OJ respectively. The clinical presentation is known as anti-synthetase syndrome and manifests as arthritis, myocytus, interstitial lung disease, and mechanic hands, shown by the red pain-bolts, inhaler, and lung-shaped vests, and orc hold in a wrench respectively. The next two characters are easiest to remember as a pair, our amyopathic meathead and outchild. Amyopathic and cancer associated Dermatomyocytus are both due to P155-140 antibodies and are represented by a meathead with his Goku-esque figurine fighting a cancer crab. You can recall P155 and 140 by remembering the one sword and five maracas on the left of him and the one sword four flag and zero crown on the right where they are placed so they're involving the child to remind you that child onset Dermatomyocytus is due to anti-P140 antibodies. Notably, anti-P140 childhood Dermatomyocytus is also associated with cutaneous calcinosus, so don't forget that spilled milk. To his left, magic mic is just grinning away with his two swan figurine. He represents anti-MI2 associated Dermatomyocytus, which has a favorable prognosis. Recall that MI2 is a helicase, which is shown by a helix-shaped turnstile. Our short-lived dwarf, whose hero was killed by a serpent and his hold in his broken heart should remind you that anti-SRP associated DM is associated with cardiac involvement and carries a very poor prognosis. Lastly, our cameraman by the MDA poster and sporting a one sword, four flag and zero crown represents anti-MDA5-Catum 140-associated Dermatomyocytus. Recall that Catum literally stands for clinically amyopathic Dermatomyocytus, which is why we've made him fat but jacked. And this form presents with classic findings of gothrins, papules and mechanics hands, but it has rapidly progressive interstitial lung disease, which is shown by the jolt rings, toolbox full of wrenches, and the lung-shaped vests with a pocket watch hanging from the pocket. Well, thanks for tuning in, and don't forget to test and reinforce your knowledge by taking the quiz and following along with the coloring page. I'll catch you next time.
