TRANSCRIPT: Dermatofibroma (DF) and DFSP
============================================================

Welcome back and come on in to David's Fibers and Special Preserves, a taste of the old country. In this sketch, we'll be taking a nostalgic look at the old-fashioned country store. Now for those of you not familiar with the Midwest, there's a thriving Amish community, and you should visit if you want a taste of the best preserves, and you want to feel the caress of a toasty, hand-woven wool blanket. But, if you're just passing by to learn a thing or two, Alright, fine, you've come to the right place. Because in this sketch, titled David's Fibers and Special Preserves, we'll be covering the most need to know histologic features of Dermato Fibromas and Dermato Fibrosarcoma Pratubrens, which we abbreviate as DF and DFSP for short. This video will be relatively short, but note that the features of Dermato Fibromas will be on the left half of the sketch, and the features of Dermato Fibrosarcoma Pratubrens will be on the right. Let's get started with our central hook on the back wall that reads David's Fibers and Special Preserves, which of course should remind you that we're talking about DF and DFSP. Notice that the sign is creatively designed as a spindle. Alright, so for those of you who weren't raised on a ranch, a spindle is used to spin loose wool into yarn. The spindle sign is to remind you that both DF and DFSP are tumors composed of spindle cells, but more specifically, they're derived from fibroblasts. One thing many people don't know about the Amish is that they have a unique ability to bake love into their food, and man, you can taste it. But if you don't believe me, just stop by and try some with David's Fibrodonuts. These Fibrodonuts should remind you of Dermato Fibromas, and notice that we've drawn the donuts have a little dimple in the center. This is because clinically DFSP present as firm, hyper-pigmented papules with a characteristic finding called the dimple sign, which is a central indentation when lateral pressure is applied. But let's also add the sign in the back with an Amish woman on it and show her with some gregarious dimples. Tell me that sign doesn't just drive that point home. Oh, and look at that fresh starburst of yellow sunlight growing the beautiful whole grain grass. You know, this is going to be a quality product. This starburst of yellow is to remind you that on Dermoscopy, DFSP show a characteristic starburst pattern, which is actually a central scar-like area with a peripheral pigment network. Now, for those of you who are a dermatomonic regulars, you may have thought, hmm, those blades of whole grain look a lot like follicles. And you might also have thought, maybe this means that Dermato Fibromas often show follicular induction on histology. And you know what? Gosh darn it, you're right. Dermato Fibromas do in fact show follicular induction in many cases with primitive follicular germ cells or even sebaceous gland development overlying lesion. Additionally, you can often find what's commonly referred to as tabletop and when looking above the lesion. This refers to the effacement of the reddy ridges overlying the tumor with plate-like acanthosis, given a flat appearance with the resumption of the reddy on either side of the tumor like the legs of a table. So remember this nice flat table where the donuts are and how the legs are extending down on either side. Though not specific, I find this to be a particularly useful feature from low power. If you're not here for the high fiber food, but maybe you're more crafty individual, well just take a gander at the back of the store and check out the items on this custom shelf. Here, you'll find some high-quality bundles of fiber. These bundles of yarn with a wrapping around the center are to remind you of the collagen trapping that's common at the periphery of Dermato Fibromas. Ah, but maybe you just want a souvenir that's already made. Well, just take a look at Dave's custom blaze and embroidery. Note that this has a three heart on it. The one sword and three heart are to remind you that Dermato Fibromas stain positively for factor 13A while DFSPs will not. Speaking of DFSPs, let's move to the right side of the store where you can buy some delicious special preserves and we'll also cover the key features of DFSP. On exam, DFSPs are often nondescript nodules that are often initially thought to be cis or scars. So make sure to keep it at the back of your mind if you see something that you can't put a name on. We've made our special preserves sign look a little like a skin colored bump or cross section through a cyst as an added reminder. Histologically though, DFSPs as well as Dermato Fibromas are on your busy dermis differential diagnosis due to the cellular density. When we want you to remember that something is on the busy dermis differential will include a busy bee like this one. Furthermore, a classic finding on histology is the infiltration of tumor cells into the fat known as fat trapping which gives a honeycomb appearance on H&E. To remind you of this, notice how we shown a preserve of honey that's been knocked over and is running from the top of the display down to the bottom and going around the honeycomb design. Additionally, there's often broad a basement of the reedy ridges kinda like the broad flat tabletop. Note that another buzzword used to describe the patterning of cells within the tumor's story form, which means woven, and I think the story form differential is another differential that's useful to learn. Now worries though, Dave has you covered, with of course hand woven wool blankets for your bed. When we show a woven blanket, I want you to think of the story form differential, but in this case, it's specifically for your bed because the test likes to refer to a Dermato Fibrosarcoma Pratuberans with pigment as a bed-narr tumor. Ah, frickin' splitters. Lastly, like Dermato Fibromas, DFSPs also have a special stain you need to know, and that is CD34. So we'll add some decorations to our special preserve sign in the shape of a three-heart and a four-flag. Trust me, you'll love this honey, but if you don't, well, just pretend, because you will be asked this. Repededly. Note that while it's not explicitly shown and probably lower yield, you should try to remember that DFSPs usually have a characteristic chromosomeal translocation between chromosome 17 and 22. We'll reinforce this with the quiz. Now, let's wrap this sketch up in a nice wool blanket. This sketch at David's Fibros and Special Preserves covers the key features of Dermato Fibromas and Dermato Fibrosarcoma Pratuberans, which are both spindle cell tumors of the Fibroblast lineage. Recall the spindle on the sign. On the left-hand side of the sketch, we cover characteristics of Dermato Fibromas, which is shown with the Fibrodonuts. On exam, DFSPs appear as hyperpigmented papules that dimple when squeezed. So, remember that brown donuts with a central dimple, but also the woman on the sign with dimples. Also, recall that the sign has a starburst pattern to remind you of the central white, sclerotic starburst appearance on termoscopy. The weak grass with a follicular appearance should remind you that DFS often have follicular induction in the Dermas overlying them. Another classic feature is the facement of the reedy ridges, which is known as tabletopin. So, recall the table. In the back on the shelf, we've recalled that bundles of fibers are to remind you of collagen trapping, which is common at the periphery of Dermato Fibromas. While the custom one-sword and three-heart embroidery should remind you that Dermato Fibromas are factor 13 positive, but CD34 negative. On the right-hand side of the sketch, we discussed Dermato Fibrosarcoma protuberans, which is shown with the special preserve sign. On exam, these are often nondescript lesions that may appear as sclerotic nodules or cystic structures, like the sign that looks like a skin-colored nodule that resembles a cyst and cross-section. These tumors are densely cellular and are included in the busy Dermas differential. Recall the busy bee. Another term used to describe the cellular pattern is story form or woven. So, recall the woven bedding on the wall. We say this is the bedding because another name for DFSP with pigment is a bednar tumor. Classic histologic features of DFSPs include broad of facement of the reedy, fat trapping with a honeycomb appearance, and positive stain in for CD34 and negative for factor 13. These features are shown by the broad flat table, honey running down the front of the table around the honeycomb decorations, and three heart and four flag decorations respectively. Well, that's about all folks. Now don't forget to follow along on the color and page and take the quiz to maximize your learning.
