TRANSCRIPT: Drug Induced Lupus Erythematosus (DILE)
============================================================

Oh, hey there. Don't be shy. Everyone's welcome at Wolves, and there's a surplus of drugs to go around. In this sketch titled Wolves Drug Surplus, we'll be discussing drug induced lupus. Specifically, we'll be discussing drug induced systemic lupus. There's a difference between drug induced systemic lupus and other forms of drug induced lupus, such as drug induced subcutaneous lupus, which is probably the most common cutaneous form. We'll cover the most common medications in the sketch, but we'll cover the other medications that pertain to specific forms, such as drug induced subacute cutaneous lupus, in their own respective sketches. Unlike many drug related dermatosis, drug induced lupus usually doesn't manifest until having been on the medication for over a year, sometimes longer. As our first hook, let's put a sign that reads, open 365 days a year to remind you that it takes a full year typically before it manifests. After all, Wolves provides an essential service for people, people from all walks of life. It's a place where anyone can come to ease with ails them. Just read the banner below the counter. Wolves drugs cures things like pain, myalgia, fevers, weight loss, and cirocytus. Interestingly, drug induced lupus doesn't prominently feature cutaneous findings. Instead, the most common symptoms are those listed in this banner. The symptoms are typically vague and require a high index of suspicion and strong base of knowledge about what drugs to look for. You should probably know that the most common symptoms are arthralges and myalgias. To show this, we'll introduce our first character, the cowboy. He's been hard at work on the ranch and it shows. Take a look at his pain bolts around his back and his knees. This should serve as an additional reminder of the arthralges and myalgias calling amongst these patients. Before we get into specific medications, though, I want to take a minute to explain how I chose to group the medications so that you can try to remember them in the same way. Typically, drug induced lupus doesn't have cutaneous findings. It does have anti-history antibodies and is associated with slow sedalation. In this sketch, the drugs that feature these characteristics can be found in a band across the middle of the sketch. There are only two other medications that don't fit this typical description. One will be on the back wall and the other will be here in the foreground. Let's start off by talking about the typical drugs first. And we'll do this by giving our cowboy a cane to hold on to. This cane is also a hook for procane amide. One of the most typical medications. Just like a true cowboy, he's brought his lasso. Don't ask me why, but for some reason, isonize it makes me think of a lasso. I guess try saying lasonize it or lasonize it. It's fun. Let's show our next drug with this incredibly distracting lasers display. Hippies will bite just about anything. At Dermnomonics, lasers should remind you of hydralazine, which is a common medication used for acute blood pressure control. It's less commonly used for chronic management, so you won't see it quite as often as you used to. Another blood pressure medication you should know is methodopa. But in real life, you're not likely to see a patient who's on this chronically. It's using the acute setting for pregnant women. We'll portray methodopa with this dope is dope sign on the left hand side of the sketch. Last but certainly not least is penicillamine, which is shown in our sketch by the standard number two pencil. In addition to being a board favorite and fitting the quote, typical description of drug abuse lupus, penicillamine can actually unmask underlying SLE. To go along with buying a laser, you have a once in a lifetime opportunity to show your support of wolves by purchasing the stylish wolf mask. Notice how we've placed the mask in the display directly below the penicillamine pencil. It's reminding you that it's the only penicillamine that has the association of unmasking true lupus. As we stated earlier, all the medications we just discussed have the typical anti-histone antibodies, which we draw into the sketch with these all natural homeopathic histone bead bracelets. Can you see how they look almost like DNA coiling around histone molecule? If not, go to Google, type in histone, look at images, it'll make sense. The last few medications we'll cover in the sketch, we'll show at the top and the bottom of the page, starting with minocycling. If you'll recall from our sweet syndrome sketch, the recurring image for minocycling is a fish fish. And what kind of hippy drugs are we with this bee without a trippy minocycling fish logo? We'll display it prominently here on the wall. Recall that it's not in the center with the typical drugs, and that's because minocycling is not associated with typical drug induced lupus antibodies. Instead, it's associated with p-enca positivity. We'll show this with our p-enca pancakes in sort of a munchies joke here. Ooh, and that's quite a deal. Four tasty cakes for just six bucks? This added four for six sign is a reminder that most symptoms of drug induced lupus will be resolved within four to six weeks of discontinuing the effing agent. It's not specific to minocycling, but it didn't fit well anywhere else in the story. The other outlier, or rather outliers, are TNF-alph inhibitors. These are shown in the front by this college kid holding a TNF-alph inhibitor cell phone. Unlike all other medications discussed so far, drug induced lupus to TNF-alph inhibitors tends to be associated with classic cutaneous findings seen in lupus, such as photosynthetivity and maylar rash. We've shown these with our recurring photosynthetive sun hat and a stylish butterfly tattoo on his calf. He's so tough. Furthermore, these patients often have positive double-stranded DNA antibodies. So let's put a cool DNA helix looking lamp here. I'm not saying eyed shop at wolves, but I definitely buy that lamp. So let's sum this sketch up. This is a TNF-alphabetic retinue lupus typically presents with anti-histotent antibodies and doesn't typically feature cutaneous findings. Instead, it has systemic findings. The most common systemic findings are myologies and arthralges shown with the pain bolts on our cowboy. Remember that the cowboy holding a cane is to remind you of procanomide, one of the typical drugs. He's also holding a lacedod remind you of lacedinisid. I mean, sorry, isinisid, another typical drug. The last two typical drugs are penicillamine, the pencil, and hydrallzine, the lasers. Remember that penicillamine can unmask true lupus, and that's why we've put the wolf mask below the pencil. We call it all four of these medications have anti-histotent antibodies, so remember the histone hippy bracelet beads. Don't forget that methyl dopa may show up, but it's pretty rare because it's not really used chronically. The last two medications are minocycling the fish minute on the wall and TNF-alph inhibitors. To call it, get with the TNF-alphine inhibitor cell phone here in the front. Remember that minocycling has p-enca antibodies, and remember that TNF-alphine hipero has cutaneous findings. So remember the sun hat, and remember the maylar butterfly tattoo. Lastly, recall that TNF-alphine inhibitors, specifically etanersept, may have double stranded DNA positive antibodies, the sweet double stranded DNA positive lamp. Alright, well you guys chill out, grab some snacks, and we'll catch you at the next sketch.
