TRANSCRIPT: Dyskeratosis Congenita (DKC)
============================================================

Hello and welcome back. In today's sketch, we're going back to a more carefree and happy time in our lives, with some epic music and weird vibes. Yeah, that's right. We're going to the Power & Light district in downtown KC for the DKC Discaritosis Congenita Music Festival. So, grab your wristbands and let's get rolling! This Caratosis Congenita is a genetically heterogeneous disorder that is characterized by bone marrow failure, reticulated hyperpigmentation, nail distrophy and leukoplegia. This disorder is most commonly caused by an X-linked recessive mutation in DKC1. To remind you of this, we've placed a fence with reinforcements shaped like an X and welcome signs to the festival that says DKC with a KC Chiefs Arrowhead and are recurring number one sword on it. It is important to know that this disorder may also be caused by autosomal dominant secondary mutations in TURT and TURK. To remind you of TURK and TURK, we got one of our creative festival goers to hold signs decorated in autosomal dominant dominoes that say get TURK and TURK. I mean, I could not have said it better myself. I hold my beer. These mutations lead to defective telemere maintenance, which leads to the progressive shortening of the telemere. So essentially, patients affected by this disorder have reduced telomerase activity and abnormally shortened telemere, which leads to chromosomal instability and dysfunction in cellular replication. To remind you of telemere, we've placed a cell tower that oddly resembles a telemere in the background with flashing red lights at the ends. I mean, all the festival goers, they're gonna need good cell reception so they can post pictures and live stream from this epic festival. Am I right? Oh, and speaking of, this girl is a total festival influencer. Just check out that fishnet crop top. It is so reticulated. And it goes perfectly with that tie-dye bandana around her neck. Totally fashion forward. Seriously, the DKC festival is totally comparable to Coachella. This fishnet crop top should remind you of the reticulated hyperpigmentation of the neck, arms, and upper torso that commonly affects patients with DKC. Furthermore, the tie-dye print that she's wearing around her neck should remind you of the poicula derma that these patients also often have. Well, if you're not jealous of her super cool outfit, then you'll definitely envy this sinfully yummy cotton candy that she is chowing down on before the concert starts. This cotton candy should remind you of the luchoplakia cotton candy from the pacionechia congenitus sketch. However, the luchoplakia and DKC differs from pacionechia congenitus because it is premalignant. To remind you of this, our influencer gal is rocking a recurrent cancer crab bracelet on her wrist, which is obviously a VIP wristband. It's worth knowing that these patients are at an increased risk of utaneous squamous cell carcinomas in general, and because of this, you should probably screen at least annually if you have a patient with dyscaretosis congenitus. Oh, it looks like the crew isn't quite done setting up for the show. Check out this rusty old working truck to haul the stage supplies. I mean, now maybe I've been watching too much germamonics, but the elevated cover on the truck bed. Yeah, that reminds me of anacolysis. And I think I've seen this truck before. Maybe in the clouston syndrome sketch? Despite feeling a little bit spacey from this festival, I know that truck when I see it. This truck is a recurring hook for anacodistrophy, another important feature of dyscaretosis congenitus. Like the name implies, nail findings are very common in these patients and often present in early childhood. Initial changes often include longitudinal region and splitting, followed by taridia formation and eventually complete nail loss. To remind you of taridia, you first need to know that the taridian literally means wing or wing like. Oh, and speaking of wings, this gal has got white and outfit. This party animal is rocking some cool angel wings, stand by our onacodistrophy truck, and that's to remind you of dorsal taridium. One of the more dangerous features, and probably the one you should be most aware of for DKC, is bone marrow failure, which occurs in 50 to 90% of patients and is a major cause of mortality. It often presents during the second or third decade of life with anemia, thrombocytopenia, or pancytopenia. To remind you of this, we've got several red ornaments hanging from the ceiling and scattered, broken on the ground, to remind you of red blood cells. Oh, now that's spooky. I didn't even notice how the scaffolding was made of bones. This should serve as a hook for bone marrow failure. Alright, now this scene is starting to get pretty weird for a concert, and not to mention the lady with the grey hair is totally tripping. I mean, she must really be feeling the music, or… She's feeling some. She's crying, profused tears of joy, and… Phew, she is sweating a lot. This should remind you that early grain, excessive lacrimation, aka epipharia, due to lacrimal duck atreasia, as well as hyperhydrosis, are all features of DKC to be aware of. Let's put some recurring ocula shades on her to cover up the crime. I mean, nobody wants a crybaby at the best music festival of all time. Oh, and this should remind you that these patients may also present with ocula findings. Alright, y'all. It is time to get… FUNC IT! The main performer is out on the stage. He's totally sporting his crab underwear, and… Oh my, a crab-tong-tattu. This guy is definitely edgy. This crab underwear and crab-tong-tattu should remind you that DKC patients have increased risk for squamous cell carcinoma affecting the oral mucosa, esophagus, anus, and genitalia. By the looks of him… Yeah, these might not be the only crabs that he's got. Also, I guess a lot of these artists party hard, but… Bro, those teeth are BAD! Our singers less than ideal chompers should remind you that these patients may also have malformed teeth, misent teeth, or extensive dental caries. Recall that these patients are also at increased risk for hematopoietic malignancies, so we've hired a line-made stand advertising with some recurrent lymphoma lines by the stage to provide refreshments. Additional systemic complications may also occur in patients with DKC, including liver cirrhosis and pulmonary fibrosis. So, we've made our performers guitar oddly liver-shaped and our speakers oddly long-shaped with some super creepy cobwebs on them to remind you of fibrosis. Well, guys, that about sums up the most lit festival of the year. Now, let's hit the highlights one last time. Discaretosis congenitalia is a genetically heterogeneous disorder that is characterized by bone marrow failure, reticulated hyperpigmentation, nail dystrophy, and leukoplaicia. It is most commonly caused by an X-linked recessive mutation in DKC-1, which is shown by our fence with reinforcements shaped like an X, and the welcome sign to the festival that says DKC with a KC chief's arrowhead and our recurrent number-one sword on it. Recall that this disorder may also be caused by autosomal dominant secondary mutations in tert and terk. So, take a look at our signs decorated in autosomal dominant dominoes that say get tern and twerk. The telomere cell phone towers with red flashing lights at the end should remind you that these mutations lead to defective telomere maintenance, leading to reduced telomerase activity, and shortened telomeres. Our partygoers fishnet crop top and tie dye bandana should remind you that these patients often present with reticulated hyperpigmentation of the neck, arms, and upper torso and poicular derma, respectively. The yummy cotton candy snack that she's holding should remind you of the pre-malignant leukoplaquia that these patients may present with, and the cancer crab VIP bracelet that she's wearing should remind you that these patients are at an increased risk for squamous cell carcinoma. Our recurrent, rusty old truck from the clostin syndrome sketch should remind you that DKC patients also present with onica dystrophy, most importantly, terrigium formation. To remind you of the clinical finding of terrigium, the angel wing deformity, we have our super stylish partygoer rock in her angel wings. Recall that bone marrow failure is another more dangerous manifestation of DKC to be aware of, as shown by our scattered broken RBC-esque ornaments and bone scaffolding. It's also important to remember that early grain, excessive lacrimation, aka epipharia, and hyperhydrosis are all features of DKC to be aware of, as shown by our gray-haired lady who's really feel in the music and crying tears of joy and sweating profusely. Recall that ocular findings may also occur as shown by her wearing her recurrent ocular sunglasses. Our performer boldly rock in his crab decorated underwear and showing off his crab tongue tattoo, should remind you that DKC patients have increased risk for squamous cell carcinoma, affecting the oral mucosa, esophagus, anus, and genitalia. Also, his not-so-stage-ready teeth should remind you that these patients may also have malformed teeth, missing teeth, or extensive dental carries. It's important to remember that these patients are also at increased risk for hematopoietic malignancies, as well as other serious systemic findings, including liver cirrhosis and pulmonary fibrosis. This is shown by our lymphoma lymade stand, oddly-shaped liver guitar, and lung-looking speakers with some cobwebs for fibrosis. Well, I think this is about as much craziness as I can take in a day, so that about sums up this party for me. I don't know about y'all, but I'm going to watch my Instagram highlight reel from Coachella. I'll see you next time.
