TRANSCRIPT: Epidermodysplasia Verruciformis (EDV)
============================================================

Welcome back. In today's sketch, we're going to the EDV Evergreen Tree Farm to cover epidermal dysplasia of arousiformis. Now, I don't know about you, but Evergreen definitely gets me into the Christmas spirit. So let's hop on in. Epidermal dysplasia of arousiformis, aka EDV, is an autosomal recessive disorder that causes patients to be susceptible to infection with HPV genus beta. Recall that HPV genus beta does not typically cause infection in immunocompetent individuals. To remind you that it's specifically the beta genus, we've got our good old jolly Santa Claus carrying his toy bag that is shaped like the letter B. I mean, could we really have an Evergreen Tree Farm at Christmas time? That Santa being there? Uh, wait a minute. I don't remember all these toads hopping around everywhere when I went Christmas tree shopping. But maybe that's just because I didn't grow up somewhere warm? Eh, regardless. It's probably a good thing, because toads really creep me out. But anyways, these ugly toads are our recurrent hook for HPV virus, which causes the clinical manifestations of EDV. Oh, that makes more sense. Maybe there are toads because this is the true South in the great state of Arkansas. How do I know? Well, I can see the state outline drawn in the snow. I hear there's lots of critters down here. This outline of Arkansas abbreviated AR should remind you that this disease is autosomal recessive. Oh, now that's festive. Not having these nasty toads hopping around, at least they've got this cute snowman holding his number 5 Maraka at the entrance of our tree farm. This should remind you that EDV is most commonly caused by HPV 5 as shown by our 5 Maraka and HPV 8, which is shown with our number 8 snowman. Yeah, alright. We're not being consistent. Come on, don't be too harsh on us. Tell you what, I'll give our snowman some number 8 handcuffs to hold. This in case someone tries to pull a fast one and run off with one of our evergreens. When I think about it though, that might be a little tricky because just look at these evergreen trees. They are tree mendus. I mean, I really don't care if you diss a green. Alright, I'll stop. Anyways, these evergreen trees should remind you of the trunk, ADIN, in the genes ever 1 and ever 2, which encode transmembrane proteins localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and cause EDV. To remind you of ever 1 and 2, we've topped our first tree with a number 1 sword and our second tree with a number 2 swan. I mean, I feel like the swan is Christmassy, but the sword? Maybe they're getting back to their pagan roots? Weird. Anyway, at least they've got good advertising. Here's a sign that reads trees, Merry Christmas, with a snowman carrying a number 6 golf club. Now that is pretty cute. This tree's Merry Christmas sign with our number 6 golf club and number 8 snowman should remind you of TMC6 and TMC8, another name of the ever 1 and ever 2 genes that boards may want you to recognize. Patients with EDV commonly present with discrete, confluent, or widespread papules that resemble flat warts. Now, when I think of flat warts, I think a cute little flat top bumps that no one wants, but everyone has had. Just like gumdrops. Wouldn't you know it? Some kids at the tree farm have decided to add some pink gumdrop buttons that resemble flat warts to the super cute snowman. EDV has also been called Treeman Syndrome by the public because some extensive cases may present with extensive generalized and confluent warts. So, we've made our snowman have tree bark hands to remind you of this. Ugh, now this is truly a winter wonderland. Check out these snow-capped trees. Now if you look closely, you may see that the snow has fallen in a nice, seborrheic distribution. Or maybe I've just been watching too much thermonics. These snow-capped trees in a seborrheic distribution should remind you that these patients may also present with scaly, pinkish, or hypo-pigmented guttate macules and thin plaques that resemble tiniaversa color. Oh, and check it out. Even though it's Christmas time, it looks like our snowman is rocking his cancer crab necklace for beachy vibe. This should remind you that these patients are also susceptible to actinic caratosis and eventually squamous cell carcinomas in half of these patients by age 30. Recall that these squamous cell carcinomas are often low-grade and occur in sun-exposed areas because UV irradiation acts as a co-carsinogen with HPV. Beta HPV subtypes can also cause an EDV-like eruption in immunosuppressed patients, such as AIDS, transplant, or patients with lymphoma. To remind you of this, we've placed a pile of snowballs that are green? Ah, well, you know how this thing goes. Don't eat the yellow snow, and if you see green, just put it down and call poison control? These green snowballs are meant to look just like our recurring lymphoma limes and first-aid AIDS bag by our snowman. Now this tree farm is merry and bright. They've got some super cool ornaments hanging in our evergreen trees. However, they aren't your basic Christmas-y green and red. Now these are blue-gray and pho-me. Interesting choice. But hey, I would have hoped by now you realize that this ain't no ordinary tree farm. This is to remind you of the classic vacuolated keratinocytes with large blue-gray nuclei seen on histology in EDV. Now I think I've just about slayed all the important aspects of EDV. So let's quickly sum up this sketch and hit the high points. With the derma dysplasia varusiformis, aka EDV, is an autosomal recessive disorder that causes patients to be susceptible to infection with HPV genus beta. As shown by our good old Jolly Santa Claus, carrying his toy bag that is shaped like the letter B. To remind you of HPV, we've got our recurrent HPV toads scattered throughout the sketch. Furthermore, this super cool outline of Arkansas and the snow should remind you that this disease is autosomal recessive. All the EDV is most commonly caused by HPV-5, as shown by our 5 Maraka, and HPV-8, which is shown by our 8 snowman on the side. These tree-mendous evergreen trees topped with our number 1 sword and number 2 swan should remind you of the trunk-aiding in the genes, ever 1 and ever 2. The trees Mary Christmas sign with our number 6 golf club and number 8 snowman should remind you of TMC-6 and TMC-8. Another name for ever 1 and ever 2 genes, which the test riders might want to throw your way. Our super cute snowman decorated in gumdrop candies and tree bark hands should remind you of the widespread flat warts associated with EDV. The snow cap trees in a separate distribution should remind you that these patients may also present with lesions that resemble tiniaversa color. These patients are also susceptible to actinic carotoses and squamous cell carcinomas at a young age, as shown by our snowman rocking the recurrent cancer crab necklace. Our recurrent lymphoma limes and AIDS bag by our snowman serve as a hook to remind you that beta HPV subtypes can also cause an EDV-like eruption in immunosuppressed patients. Lastly, these unique blue-gray ornaments on the tree serve as a hook to remind you of the classic vacuallated caratino sites with large blue-gray nuclei seen on histology in EDV. Well, I think that about covers EDV and our evergreen tree farm. So for now, Merry Christmas to all and to all. A good night.
