TRANSCRIPT: Epidermolysis Bullosa
============================================================

Welcome back for another exciting sketch in the world of dermedomontics. In this sketch, titled Running with the Bulls, we'll be talking about epidermalysis blosa, a group of inherited blistered diseases with a wide range of presentations. There is an acquired form of the disease, but this is associated with inflammatory bowel disease, and we will not be discussing it in this sketch. Instead, we'll break down this sketch in a four main areas that correspond to the accepted classification system, denoting EV simplex, junctional EV, dystrophic EV, and kinler syndrome. Because the group of diseases is large, it has many associated and overlapping features, we've chosen to highlight the most testable and distinguishing features for each subtype. So let's introduce our first character, our Bull. His position front and center, it reminds you that the entire sketch will be discussing epidermalysis blosa. And who's that? Our angry Bulls staring at? Yep, he's already picked his first target and the first subtype of EV has to be introduced. Epidermalysis blosa simplex, generalized intermediate, also known as the Covement type. But right here by our terrified middle age man, you'll notice he's brought his sword, our recurring symbol for the number one, and staying next to the foreflag. This sword and foreflag should remind you that the types of EV as positioned near here are due to mutations in character 5 and 14. Furthermore, he's what himself and he's sweating through his shirt, gross. This reminds you that the Covement type of EVS favors areas of friction. What? What did you just say? Who's he pointing at? That's the most famous Matador in all of Spain, and our next character in the sketch. Notice how the Matador's cape kinda looks like a net and his failed outfit almost makes him look maybe a little bit modeled? This is because he's meant to represent EVS with modeled pigmentation. A very rare form due to mutations in character 5 but not due to character 14. Notice that he's positioned away from the one sword and foreflag. Moving right along to our next contestant, check out this average Joe. He's probably the most normal of the group. That's because he represents the localized form of EVS, also known as Weber-Calkane. Notice that he's preparing for the run by stretching down to his toes. This should help remind you that the blistering Weber-Calkane is predominantly limited to the hands and feet, and thus it's often worsened by ill-fitting shoes. Aww, that's a cute little chicken just plucking away. I find it odd how he's just kind of sitting next to that empty wheelchair though. Maybe that contestant's just out taking a bathroom break. This chicken next to the wheelchair is to help remind you that a very rare form of EVS is associated with musculoskeletal dystrophy. This form is due to mutation in Plectin, hence the chicken plucking away. EBS with musculoskeletal dystrophes not only unique because it's due to mutation other than keratin, but also because it's the only autosomal recessive form of epidermalized spilosis simplex. Great Odin's Raven! Is that a skeleton? So much for hoping our wheelchair contestant was just taking a bathroom break, this skeleton represents the most severe form of EVS. EVS generalize severe. Previously known as Dowling Mera or EVS, herpetiformis. Patients develop generalize blisters taking on herpetiform appearance. They usually have a normal lifespan. There is an association with early death secondary deceptic, anemia, or growth failure. Position next to the one sword and foreflag should remind you that this type is again due to mutations in keratin 5 and 14. Living the ground next to them, there are lots of little pebbles and bones and debris. Scattered pebbles and debris, maybe little holes, this is going to be a recurring symbol for features resembling ppk, polymer planter caratosis. In this case, polymer hypercaratosis. Furthermore, a classic finding on electron microscopy is clumped tonofilaments, kind of like the clumped pile of bones in the sketch. Wow, well we've got quite the array of contestants running this year, but what are these hoodlums doing down here? These are the protesters down in the right hand corner, and they represent junctional optimum lysis polosa. Notice how three of the protesters are holding signs with the eye heart the bull and heart animals, and it's this guy who kind of likes it duck and wants us to set them free. Well, this should remind you that mutations in laminin 332 are responsible for J-E-B, the generalized severe type, previously known as hurlits or e-B-lethalus. Looking a little closer, we'll see the characteristics of these patients. The grainy holding the bullhorn should remind you that this type is often associated with severe oral and respiratory findings, including a horse cry, respiratory failure, parry oral blistering, and parry-ungle granulation tissue. So the picture they like to show is an infant or a neonate with a large amount of granulation tissue around the mouth. Furthermore, notice how the hippie sitting next to her has this pocket stuffed with hippie propaganda? That should remind you that the buttocks is another common sight of bluestre formation. Sadly, these patients typically die within just the first few years of life due to sepsis or respiratory failure. You're probably catching on by now, but if there's a generalized severe, there must be a generalized intermediate. And that's right, our angry guy jumping into the intermediate zone is meant to represent the junctional eptromolysis bullosa, generalized intermediate type, also known as non-herlits generalized atrophic benign eptromolysis bullosa. Oh, descriptive. Notice how he's wielding the one sword and seven boomerang. That's to help remind you that this type of eptromolysis bullosa is associated with collagen 17 mutations as well as laminin 332. The unique cutaneous features seen with this type are scarring alopecia and atrophic scarring. Notice his scarring alopecia do raggies wearing and how his pants are a little stretched tight, wrinkled, maybe kind of tissue-peppery atrophic. That should help you remember that. The last form of junctional eptromolysis bullosa we'll discuss is associated with pyloric atreja. This will be represented by the poor guy who just came to watch the run, but instead it looks like he was assaulted by these protester bullies. He's depicted on the ground hurling his guts out after being hit and stomached by the golf club. He's even lost his sweet sunglasses on the ground. What, jerks? The golf clubs are recurring symbol for the number six, and if you look closely, his sunglasses resemble the Greek letter beta in our position next to the four flag. I know, I know. That's a lot. But let's sum it up. J-E-B, associated with pyloric atreja, is due to mutations in alpha-6 beta-4 integrand. These patients commonly have an involvement of the urinary tract leading to reedal stenosis and hydrinoprosis. They may even be born with large areas of skin that didn't form. Now let's talk about the most intense forms of eptromolysis bullosa. Shift your focus to the top left ankle on the sketch. The characters in this area will represent the distrophic forms of eptromolysis bullosa. And our first character is his fit, boomerang wielding dominant fellow. I'm into a reminder you have autosomal dominant distrophic epidromolysis bullosa. Again note that the boomerang is a recurring symbol for the number seven, which means that distrophic epidromolysis bullosa is due to defects in collagen seven. The stylish and apex-intuating body armor that he's rocking should help remind you of the classic finding of albopapuloid papules that arise on the trunk without preceding blisters. It's worth noting that because these patients have one copy of collagen seven that's still functional, their disease often improves with time. Compare that to this big bad mammothjamist and the next to our dominant warrior, our ultimate bullrangler. This represents autosomal recessive distrophic epidromolysis bullosa, the most severe form of the disease. Notice that he's also rocking out a seven boomerang, but he also has a skull and cross bones tattoo on his chest. This is to remind you that these patients die young. Highly testable fact is how these patients die. Typically, SCC or squamous cell carcinoma is the most common cause, followed by renal failure. So we've added this suspiciously kidney-shaped rock from the hold his pose on, and given him a crab, which he's championing as if it were a WWE belt. Someone should probably just tell us gotta lay off the juice. Other notable features of the autosomal recessive form are healing with atrofic scarring and scarring alopecia, shown by his tissue paper-esque pants and the scarring alopecia duro he's wearing. They're also prone to joint contractors, hence his contracted flexing pose. This is due to the chronic and severe blistering which leads to scarring. This chronic and severe blistering also causes chronic inflammation, which is probably why they get so many squamous carcinomas. Lastly, you should recognize what a mitten glove deformity is. These patients get such severe blistering over their hands and fingers that when it heals, skin all heals back as one continuous sheet leading to sort of a mitten hand. We were going to draw mitten on our guy, but you can't really see his hand, so you'll just have to trust us that he's wearing mitten's. Alright, so let's bring this sketch home with our last form of epidermalysis blosa called kinler syndrome. Well, for those of you who don't speak German, I chose kinler because the name for child in German is kinder, and who doesn't love beer more than Germans? This fermented beverage cart next to the child should remind you that this is due to mutation in an FERMT1 or ferment in homologging 1. Cutaneous features associated with kinler syndrome include poicular derma, acro blistering, and photosensitivity. To exemplify this, we've given this kid a sweet, tight eye shirt. This balloon animal that he's holding his hand reminds you acro blistering, and let's give him a cool umbrella hat to help protect him from the sun. Note that the photosensitivity improves over time, so let's sum up this whole sketch. In the top right hand corner, we've got our epidermalysis blosa simplex subtypes. The three subtypes standing next to the one sword and four flag, or I guess laying in the skeleton's case, represent the types that are due to caretunes 5 and 14 mutations. Our generalizer immediate, generalizer veer, and localized forms. The two unique forms and also rare forms are EBS with model pigmentation, displayed by our metador, and EBS associated with muscular dystrophy. Notice the wheelchair and the chicken plucking away. Remember that this form is due to a plectin mutation. The next group is junctional epidermalysis blosa. These subtypes are portrayed by the characters in the bottom right hand corner. The first, the generalized severe type, previously known as the herlits or eb lethalus, is portrayed by our three protesters holding signs. Terminody of laminin 332. Most notable features in this subtype include severe periongual granulation tissue and upper respiratory involvement leading to a horse cry. Our last two forms of junctional epidermalysis blosa include our generalizer immediate, shown by our angry protester jumping into the intermediate zone. This form has HLV scarring and scarring alopecia and is due to mutations in lamin 332 and collagen 17. Lastly, we have JEP with the Pyloric A-TREASA, shown by our vomiting guy on the ground. Due to mutations in alpha-6 beta-4 integrand and also associated with urinary tract symptoms such as ureteral stenosis and hydro nephrosis. Our intense contestants in the top left hand corner represent the dystrophic forms of epidermalysis blosa. These are the most severe. The out of some will dominant portrayed by our dominant guy wearing the sweet abyssensuation body armor should remind you of autosomal dominant which typically improves with age and is not as severe. The body armor should remind you of the abel-papuoid papules. These arise without blister formation. The bad name of jam is standing next to him with the skull and crossbones set too is the autosomal recessive form. This is more severe. These patients typically die young from squamous carcinomas or renal failure. Lastly, we have kinler syndrome. Our kid in the corner. This is due to a fermenting gene mutation. These patients have acral blistering, some poichlydermatist changes of the skin, and photosensitivity as shown by the blue and animal in his hands, his tadae shirt, and his sweet umbrella hat. Whew, I don't know about you guys but that seems like a lot we just went through. I have faith that you'll remember all of it. Again, this isn't comprehensive, just the most important and highly testable features of each disease. But since we did such a good job, I think I'm going to go find me one of those fermented beverages to go drink. Till next time!
