TRANSCRIPT: Figurate Erythemas
============================================================

Welcome back to another exciting Dermnomonics video. In this video, we'll be visiting the beautiful figure figure skating rink and discuss and figure it irithemas. In general, there are four classic figure it irithemas which we will discuss, but it's important to understand exactly why these disorders are lumped together. Overall, these four diagnoses are defined by their characteristic annular appearance, or in the case of irithema gyratum, the gyrate appearance. Obviously, there are many conditions that begin with the generic descriptor irithema, but these four classic conditions have such unique appearances, a skilled clinician can often differentiate them based on the history and exam. Now, in your case, you're new to the world of Dermn. So let's review some basic morphological characteristics first. Here we have our beautiful skating rink, set in a figure skating paradise. On our rink, some skaters have left marks that are annular, meaning with a peripheral outline and central clearing. Now other skaters, they might have had a few before coming to the rink, and they left a more gyrate pattern on the ice, meaning multiple connecting arcs. Later in the sketch, we'll get into a little more detail about some other configurations, such as the Turgatoid lesion of irithema migraines, which I think of as multiple annular lesions with more than one zone of clearing and central irithema. But let's get started. Our first skater to grace the rink represents irithema annular centrifagum, or EAC for short. You can see that she's leaving a beautiful, annularly shaped pattern in the ice to remind us of the name as well as the classic shape of the lesions on exam. I'd also like to think that she's doing that move that figure skaters do. Yeah, really spin around, really really fast. Always makes me think of a centrifuge. Notably, EAC generally occurs in adults and is characterized by firm pink papules that migrate outwards. Our skaters trailing orange scarf and ring of shaved ice within the outer circles is our reminder that EAC is one of the two rashes that you should know that characteristically has a trailing scale. The other of course being piturized as Rosia, which generally occurs in children. Also, notice that she's wearing a bright lime green outfit decorated with limes, and there's a bag of limes spilling onto the rink next to her. This signifies that the pathogenesis of EAC is thought to be associated with lympho-proliferative disorders such as lymphoma or polycythemia vera. Oh, it looks like someone is on thin ice. There are two hockey players seriously brawling. These guys fighting behind our skater should serve as a trigger to remind you that dermatophyte infections can also be associated. Of note, it is theorized that EAC is a hypersensitivity reaction to these disorders, but the actual pathogenesis is unknown. For the test, you should recall the aforementioned associations, but for real life, you should know that EAC has also been linked to pregnancy and medications. It must be pretty chilly wherever they are. Our skater has on this impressively rotund coat with huge, puffy lime green sleeves. This is to clue us in on the characteristic pathfine in an EAC, which is tight, paravascular lympho-histiocytic infiltrate around superficial vessels that is known as the coat sleeve anomaly. In general, the best treatment is treating the underlying cause, but if you just want to provide relief for the patient, you can treat EAC with topical steroids. So let's add the recurring corticosteroids hydrocooler full of refreshments to go along with the lives. Next up, on the margin of the ice gating rink, we have a little boy happily skating. He represents eerothema margin autumn. You can see that this boy is wearing a scarf decorated with flowers to resemble a Hawaiian lay, signifying association with untreated strap pharyngeitis. Oh man, now he definitely has got the right idea, getting something to eat. Oof, I am really jones in for some ice cream. This little stand named Jones Cone's Cafe is just a bonus hook to remind you of the Jones Cracteria. The Koneesta is also wearing a Hawaiian scarf, farther reminding us that rheumatic fever is a sequel of untreated pharyngeitis. Notice how the lines on his on and make the letter M, which stands for the major antigenic protein in beta-hemolitic group A strep. Beside him are a group of ice cream cones with Jones spelled out, which represents the cardinal signs of rheumatic fever, including J for joint pains, O, which looks like a heart for myocarditis, N for nodules, aka eerothema nodosum, E for eerothema margin autumn, and S for sit-in-ham coria. Well, we won't cover it in this video. You can review the minor criteria for rheumatic fever as well, which are remembered by the popular pneumonic, Cafe Pau. Huh, now that is an interesting sight. We don't see many people migrating through these parts, but eh, he'll mind to judge. This man making the arduous trek in his snowshoes and migrating across the background should remind you of eerothema migrants, but just in case that's not good enough for you, we've also included a flock of migrating birds above him. Now, I'm sure you've read and heard about eerothema migrants so much through medical school, so I'm not going to belabor this disease. But important points to remember are that eerothema migrants gives you the classic targetoyd lesion that occur if the vector x-tick is attached for over 24 hours, and the natural reservoir for x-tis is the white-footed mouse and deer. We'll show these features by giving our migrant man a cool snow-ready target cart to push his belongings in. Though, the target logo does look a little strange. Is that a tick in the center of the bullseye? Yep, more specifically, it's an x-tis tick, which you can readily identify by the solid, bland, brown body and dark scutula. As a side note, why don't all stores use the luxurious and durable carts like target has? It's the little things. No, I mean… And just because it fits so well in this particular scene, we've included some majestic wildlife loitering around our migrant with his x-tis target cart. Recall that treatment is with doxycycline, and you can see the bicycle tire line on the ground here. However, it's crucial to remember that you treat pregnant women and kids less than eight months with a moxy sillin. Finally, we have eerothema gyratum repens, represented by this old man in the front of our ice-gating rink with the grim reaper lurking behind him. Yeah, it's unfortunate, but elderly people plus ice. Yeah, that equals the grim reaper's dream. I think the reaper is a fitting hook because, unfortunately, this rash is classically a reactionary perineoplastic phenomenon and strongly associated with lung adenocarsinoma. We'll represent this by giving our elderly gentlemen an orange vest that is suspiciously lung-shaped with a cancer crab on the front pocket. The appearance of EGR is classically described as having a wood grain scale at eerothema, so we've included a big wood tree stump with rings and sawdust to remind us of that. Alrighty, that about does it. So let's skate through a scene one more time and review the hooks. Eerothema annular centrifugum is represented by our figure skater with annular rings around her while she does a centrifuge-like spin. The rings represent the clinical presentation of central papule that expands to form an annular ring with a trailing scale as shown by the trailing ice shavings and trailing scarf. The rash is simply a reaction pattern to an underlying process, and you should remember that hematopoetic disorders such as lymphoma and polycythemia vera, shown by the lymphoma limes and lime metire, are classic associations. However, dermatophyte infections are also common, hence the hockey players fight in nearby. The process is lymphocyte mediated and on histology, you classically see lymphocytes enveloping blood vessels which has been described as coat-sleeving. This is represented by the skater's puffy coat-sleeves. Eerothema margin autumn is shown at the margin of the ring by the boy learning to skate and stopping in for some delicious ice cream at Jones Cone's Cafe. Recall that this is a sequela of strep pharanchitis with the Hawaiian lay-like scarf on the boy and Koneesta. We've included a bonus dermlemonic with Jones Cones to remind you of the Jones criteria and the ice cream cones with Jones spelled out to stand for joints, heart involvement, nodules, or Eerothema nidosome, Eerothema margin autumn, and Sid and Ham Coria. The M on the on and is to remind you of the M protein. The man in the snowshoes migrating across the background is for Eerothema migrants which is due to Borrelia burgdorferi transmitted by the X-CD's Tick and resembling a target on exam. Recall that the migrating man is pushing a target cart, the solid brown X-CD's Tick in the center of the target, and the deer and mouse loitering around him. Treatment is with doxycycline as shown by the bicycle wheel, but don't forget that for pregnant women and children under 8, you would use a moxycylone. Last is Eerothema gyratum repens, which is a perineoplastic phenomenon often secondary to lung adenocarcinoma and manifesting with a wood grain-like appearance. This is shown by the elderly man with the grim reaper lurking behind him, the long-shaped vest with a cancer crab on the pocket, and the tree stump with grains showing and sawdust. Well, there you have it, another adventure in the world of dermlemonics. I hope you join us for another exciting video soon. I'll catch you next time.
