TRANSCRIPT: Gorlin Syndrome
============================================================

Ladies and gentlemen, children of all ages, welcome to the greatest show on Earth. Or at least most bizarre, the Gorlin Syndrome Circus! In today's sketch, we will be covering the pathophysiology, clinical features and treatment for Gorlin Syndrome in this sketch featuring Gorlin the Gorilla. Now, without further ado, drum roll please, let's welcome Gorlin the Gorilla to the stage. Gorlin Syndrome, also known as Basil Cell Nevis Syndrome, is a rare inherited condition caused by an autosomal dominant mutation in the PTCH or patch gene. However, despite being hereditable, 50% of cases are due to new mutations. To remind you that Gorlins is due to patch gene mutations in the majority of cases, and is classically autosomal dominant, we've shown Gorlin wearing his hand-be-down patch shirt for the patch gene with some cool decorative dominoes on it to remind you that this is an autosomal dominant disorder. Recall that the patch gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein in the sonic hedgehog pathway. Now, anytime we want you to think of sonic hedgehog, we'll use the hook Sonic the Hedgehog, and you can notice that we've placed this retro Sonic the Hedgehog T-shirt on the little kid watching the show. That will remind you of SH. Before we move on to cover the clinical features, let's quickly review the pathophysiology of Gorlin Syndrome. Recall that under normal conditions, patched is not bound to its sonic hedgehog ligand, and is blocking the smooth end protein, which is an oncogene that activates the transcription factor glee-improliferative states. In Gorlin Syndrome, this patch gene is mutated and therefore causes dysregulation of the smooth end protein, leading to increased transcription of glee genes, and leading to uncontrolled cell growth, hence a lot of basal cell carcinomas. To remind you of smooth end and glee, we've placed our smooth jazz glee club sign above the stage for Gorlin the Gorilla's Act. A Gorilla glee club, huh? Now that is something you would only see at a circus. Furthermore, we'll give the child with the sonic shirt a stuffed Gorlin the Gorilla with his patched shirt that he's hugging tightly to remind you that when mutated, the SH protein binds patched. Well, I think it's about showtime, and Gorlin the Gorilla is obviously ready for his open and act. So we'll be signifying the major criteria needed to diagnose Gorlin Syndrome with the hooks in his act. Recall that the diagnostic criteria include the presence of one major criterion plus molecular confirmation, two major criteria, or one major and two minor criteria. Oh wow, now not only does Gorlin enjoy artistic pieces of clothing, but he also likes to accessorize. Now only in a circus will you see a Gorilla with a top hat on, and this isn't any top hat. It's a top hat with our recurrent cancer crab on it. This recurrent cancer crab top hat is to remind you that these patients may present with a type of brain cancer called Medula Blastoma, which typically presents within the first three years of life. Furthermore, these patients also present with numerous basal cell carcinomas, typically beginning around puberty. Importantly, the basal cell carcinomas in these patients can be tricky and may resemble melanocytic Nevi, Melia, Acrochordons, SKs, or other benign entities. So you should have a low threshold to biopsy any new lesions on these patients. To remind you of basal cells in particular, we've got Gorlin wearing his stylish pearl necklace, which is our recurrent hook for basal cell carcinomas. Huh, I'm not sure if this is supposed to be part of the act, but it looks like he spilled some milk on his head. Well, ain't no use crying over spilled milk, I guess. The spilled milk on Gorlin's head is to remind you that these patients may also present with calcification of the Phalx cerebrary. Man, this shows really falling apart, and I mean literally. Gorlin is so heavy that the stage can't even hold him. Just look at all these pits that he created. These pits on the stage are our recurrent hook for Palmer planter pits, which often present in childhood in patients with Gorlin's syndrome. Well, even though this show is a total disaster, Gorlin does seem to be enjoying himself. He's got a mouthful of some super buttery circus popcorn. The half-eaten popcorn in his mouth represents the Adontogenic caratosis of the jaw. These cysts typically occur later in the first decade of life and are usually asymptomatic, hence why he's so unbothered by the show falling apart and just enjoying his popcorn. So now that you know the major criteria, let's move on to the minor criteria, which we'll show around our trainer standing on stage with Gorlin. He's definitely ready to impress the audience with his recurrent macrosetfully 10-gallon hat. This is to remind you that these patients may present with macrosetfully. Note that in addition to frontal bossin, these patients classically also have frontal bossin and broad nasal roots, which are also features common to gorillas. I think you'll be able to remember it just by remembering the fact that Gorlin is a gorilla. Now remember, this isn't just any show, it's a freak show. And it looks like the trainer has given us a special act and showing off his extra fingers to the audience. This is to remind you that polydactually is also a minor feature of Gorlin's syndrome. Furthermore, you should know that these sweet, ocular sunglasses that he's rocking mean that there's ocular involvement. In the case of Gorlin's syndrome, there's a wide array of findings, including hyper-tellerism, strabismus, congenital cataracts, glaucoma, and colobomas. Please remember the gorilla training is hard work and it's important to fuel up with a little bit of fiber intake. And this trainer is here to remind you of this with his recurrent fibroma fibrobar displayed prominently on his t-shirt across his chest, kind of in the cardiac region to be specific. This fibroma fibrobar over his heart serves as a hook to remind you of cardiac fibromas, which can be seen in Gorlin's syndrome and are benign tumors typically located in the ventricles of the heart and are asymptomatic in two-thirds of patients. But if you plan to make the diagnosis, know that echocardiogram will be the method of choice. Take a look at the trainer performing the perfect egg juggling act. Well, I'm glad he's able to distract the crowd from all of the chaos. These eggs should remind you of ovaries, in particular, these patients are prone to developing ovarian fibromas. These eggs aren't just any eggs though. They're farm fresh eggs, and take a look at this cage that they're sitting in. I guess you could say this farms a table, or maybe it's called farm to circus in this case? The cage does look a little strange though, kind of like a bifid rib cage if I had to take a wild guess. This is a hook for the many rib anomalies associated with Gorlin's syndrome, including bifid, fused, or markedly spayed ribs. Well, I guess he can't play his everyone. It does look like some jerk has thrown his visor up on the stage. I believe this is what the kids refer to as throwing shade. This visor on the stage is to remind you of Vizmo Dejib, which is a smoothened inhibitor and frequently used to treat patients with Gorlin's syndrome in addition to standard surgical treatments for basal cell carcinomas. Well, I think it's time to close the curtain on this crazy circus act, and let's sum up the sketch. Gorlin's syndrome is an autosomal dominant mutation in the PTCH or patch gene. PTCH is a tumor suppressor of the sonic hedgehog pathway, and you can let Gorlin's shirt embellished with patches and dominoes remind you of the autosomal dominant mutation in the PTCH gene. Also, let the sonic the hedgehog logo on our little fans t-shirt remind you that sonic hedgehog pathways involved in the process. The pathophysiology of the syndrome specifically involves the dysregulation of the smoothened protein lead into an increased transcription of glee genes, ultimately lead into uncontrolled cell growth. Let our smooth jazz glee club sign above the stage remind you of the importance of the smoothened protein and glee genes in the development of the syndrome. As an additional hook to help you nail down this pathway, remember that the child is tightly hugging the stuffed Gorlin the Gorilla with his patch shirt to remind you that when mutated, the SH protein binds patched. Now let's move on to quickly review the major clinical manifestations of Gorlin syndrome. Recall that Gorlin's hat with a recurrent cancer crab symbol serves as a hook to remind you of the incidence of medulla blastoma, which typically presents within the first three years of life. Oh, and don't forget about the spilled milk on his head, which represents the calcification of the falx cerebris seen in some patients. Remember these patients will present with multiple basal cell carcinomas as shown by Gorlin's pearl necklace. The pits near Gorlin are to remind you of pulmoplansor pits which often present in childhood, and the delicious popcorn Gorlin is munching on should remind you of a dontogenic Heratocyst of the jaw. Now let's quickly sum up the minor criteria around the trainer. Let his hat remind you of the macrosophaly and frontal bossen seen in patients. Recall that our trainer is shown as talent and as extra fingers to remind you that polydactyl is another feature in Gorlin syndrome. Oh, and don't forget about the trainer's cool sunglasses. This is our recurrent symbol to remind you for the many ocular abnormalities that may manifest in patients. The fiber bar on our trainer's t-shirt placed in the cardiac region should remind you of cardiac fibromas, and the trainer doing his aches and act should remind you of ovarian fibromas. Bifid ribs is another manifestation as shown by our oddly rib shaped cage. And now to wrap up our summary, let's touch base on treatment options for patients. Standard surgical treatment can be used to treat the basal cell carcinomas. In addition, the smoothened inhibitor of vismo-dejib can be used in patients, so let the visor hat on the stage remind you of the drug vismo-dejib. All right, well I don't know about you, but I've never quite seen a circus act like that. And that popcorn looked really tasty, so I'm gonna go grab a snack. I'll see you next time.
