TRANSCRIPT: Hailey-Hailey Disease
============================================================

Welcome to Hey Haley's boutique, where the style is so hot, it might give you blisters. Today, we'll be covering the Inherited Disease Haley Haley, aka Benign Familial Pemphagus, as shown by the sign for the boutique that reads Hey Haley's boutique. Like the name Benign Familial Pemphagus implies, the disorder is inherited, and in this case in an autosomal dominant fashion. Oh, speaking of dominant fashion, take a look at that mannequin in the center. Notice how the mannequin stand is decorated with autosomal dominant dominoes to remind you of the inheritance pattern. Notably, Haley Haley is one of the disorders due to a calcium ATPase, just like Darius disease, and because the names can be confusing, boards often like to test them. In this case, the specific calcium ATPase transporter is ATP2C1. One way to remember this is with the pneumonic I want to see Haley's comet one day. So notice how our store sign has a comet on it. However, to be consistent with our previous sketch covering Darius disease, we'll give our mannequin a stylish two swan purse and one sword. And note how the stand that's holding her up is shaped like the letter C for ATP2C1. Clinically, these patients can manifest with clinical findings at almost any age, but it's generally in the teens and 20s, which is of course precisely the age group that I imagine would be shopping here at Haley's. Contrast this with Darius disease, which almost always manifests prior to age 20. While the manifestations of Haley Haley's arise in a similar distribution to Darius, it tends to be more localized to the inter-triginous regions in Haley Haley rather than the more widespread, seborrheic distribution of Darius. To remind you of this inter-triginous distribution, we've placed some ruffles on the mannequin shirt around the axilla, lateral neck, inter-mammary fold, and waistline. While histologically this disorder is classified as a blisterin disease, the lesions generally only appear vesicular or bolus in the very early stages, and by the time you see them in the clinic, the patient will simply have macerated or eroded plaques. So to remind you that it's a blisterin disorder, recall the brand new second mannequin on the ground, who's still wrapped in bubble wrap. I chose bubble wrap because it seemed more plaque-like, and I want you to remember that the classic coda-chrome of Haley Haley generally won't show you discrete vesicles. That is, unless the patient happens to be experiencing a feared complication of Haley Haley, and one that shares with Darius disease, Kaposi's varicela-form eruption. This is essentially when the involved skin of a patient with benign familial pempagus gets secondarily infected with HSV. To remind you of herpes, we'll add a stylish Hermes headdress into this mannequin. Now for the path section of boards, acantholytic disorders are extremely high yield, and you should definitely spend some time learning how to differentiate between Haley Haley, Darius, Pempagus, and Grovers, and the only way to master this is by studying slides. However, if you shift your focus to the back wall, we'll do our best to highlight a few key features that might help. First, notice how the bricks in this wall are falling apart. You might even say, dilapidated. That's because falling bricks or blocks is our recurring hook for acantholysis, and in the case of Haley Haley, the acantholysis is often full thickness, hence why the bricks are falling apart from top to bottom. However, unlike Darius, there is generally far less discaritosis, meaning you won't expect to find abundant core rons or core grains, so note that there is no whole grain cereal or round object. Another useful feature is the lack of follicular involvement. You can remember this by recalling that Haley hates hair, or you can remember this disturbing giant mannequin head with no hair, no hair written around the base. Yikes, talking about something you would not want to run into in a dark warehouse. From low power, the epidermis of Haley Haley will show a sorriaciform hyperplasia, which is useful in differentiating it from Pempagus, so let's spruce up the place a bit by decorating with a psoriasis palm tree here by the crumblyn bricks. When it comes to treatment, probably the best treatment is surgical intervention with CO2 laser ablation. Fortunately for you, a new laser tag arena called Cool Tag just opened up and Haley Haley is advertising for them. Remember, Cool Tag is C and 2O's, and it's laser tag for CO2 laser. Note that unlike in Darius, retinoids generally are not effective. More recently, and perhaps two recently to show up on boards anytime soon, the use of Gentamiasin has been described with some success, so just in case we'll add a nice gentleman holding open the door for this young woman. How do I know he's a gentleman? Well, because he's dressed rather nicely and is quite chivalrous. Last but not least, it may be worth knowing that the calcium transporter that's defective in benign familial pempagus is located in the Golgi apparatus, so we've given our woman a Golgi necklace and belt buckle. Talk about Gucci, huh? Alright, now before you rush off to Cool Tag to play laser tag, let's walk through Haley's one more time and review all these hooks. This sketch covers Haley Haley disease as shown by the store's name, Haley's. Another name for the disorder is benign familial pempagus because it's an inherited blistering disease. Specifically, it's inherited in the autosomal dominant fashion as shown by the mannequin stand decorated in dominoes, and it involves the calcium transporter ATP2C1. Remember the comment on the sign if you like the pneumonic, I want to see Haley's comment one day, or you can remember the two swan C-shaped stand and one sword. The transporter is located in the Golgi, shown by the Golgis that the woman is wearing. Clinically, patients have early vesicular lesions which progress to macerated plaques in the inter-triginous regions. Remember the bubble wrap that's more of a plaque and the frills on the mannequin shirt around the axilla, lateral neck, inter-memory fold, and groin. A feared complication is capocies varicella form eruption from secondary HSV infection, and this is shown with the Hermes headband on the second mannequin. In the back, we've shown the key histologic features, namely full thickness acantholysis resembling a dilapidated brick wall but sparing follicles, soriasiform acanthosis, and relative lack of discaritosis. These are shown by the literal dilapidated brick wall from top to bottom, the psoriasis palm tree, and the big bald mannequin head. The best treatment is CO2 laser ablation, shown with the cool laser tag poster, but in the future, gentomize and may be something that's testable, shown by the gentleman holding the door open.
