TRANSCRIPT: Hypohidrotic Ectodermal Dysplasia (HED)
============================================================

Great-y-dates, Earthlings. I come in peace. Alright, in today's sketch, we are gonna go to a highly classified location in the remote desert. No one really knows what goes on here. Yeah, that's right. I'm talking about Area 51. In today's sketch, we may even see some UAP, which of course stands for Unidentified Aerial Phenomenon. UFOs? Oh come on. That is so 1970. Now maybe. Just maybe. We'll learn about hypothyroidic ectodermal dysplasia, aka, Crest Siemens Terrain Syndrome. Alright, so we'll be covering top secret terrain today. But if I tell you everything that goes on in Area 51, I might just have to take care of you. I'm just kidding. Or am I? So hydrodic ectodermal dysplasia is a part of a heterogeneous group of genetic disorders with variable abnormalities of the hair, teeth, nails, and acrion glands. This disorder is most commonly due to an excellent recessive mutation in ectodisplation aka ED1. To remind you of this, we'll place this sign saying extraterrestrial display site 1 with the ED1 folded. Hold on a second. I thought this place was supposed to be top secret. But they're just admitted that they have UFOs out here. Alright, well at least it looks like they're trying to keep the place on lockdown. I'm going to look at that chain-linked fence with a reinforcement that oddly resembles an X shape. This is to remind you that this disorder is most commonly excellent recessive. Man, we are really out in the middle of nowhere in this desert. I wasn't joking when I said it's rough terrain. The land is just so dry, it's cracking. It's just begging for moisture. This dry cracked land is to remind you that patients with hypohydrodic ectodermal dysplasia present with hypohydrosis or lack of sweat or moisture. Notably they have dry everything. Not just skin, but eyes, mouth, etc. Well, maybe there's a little hope for life in this area. There are some very sparse and albeit frail, broken, follicular blades of grass growing off to the side here. Now, if you're already a dermatomonic expert, these frail follicular grass blades may look a little familiar to you because you've already seen our video on Clouston syndrome, which is another ectodermal dysplasia disorder. These sparse blades of grass are our recurring hook for hypohydrocysis, which is another feature of hypohydrodic ectodermal dysplasia. These patients often have thin, light hair with abs and eyelashes. You know, I used to think of the desert as this majestic place. For the brilliant dazzling colors of red and pink really exemplified the true beauty of nature. Of course, that was before I saw this super creepy rock formation. It kind of resembles a hand with some nasty, dystrophic nails. This is to remind you that these patients also often present with mild onicodistrophy. Area 51 is also well known as a top secret test insight for the military, which makes you wonder, are these peg-shaped rocks really rocks? Are they some super secret ground message to the visitors above? Maybe even a landing zone? Hey, it's not a conspiracy theory. It's a conspiracy fact. These peg-shaped rocks should remind you of the classic conical or peg-shaped teeth seen in patients with hypohydrodic ectodermal dysplasia. See, that's all it was on a conspiracy theory. Ah, our extraterrestrial guest has landed. I mean, surely, this thing can't be human, right? His giant forehead, large nostrils, lack of eyebrows, lack of hair, and prominent chin? Yeah, all that should remind you of the abnormal faces associated with hypohydrodic ectodermal dysplasia. You must have traveled from a planet far away. Just check out the dark, hyper-pigmented circles under his eyes that scream jet lag. Or would it be flying saucer lag? Man, no. These dark circles should remind you of the classic periorbital hyper-pigmentation under the eyes of these patients. Oh, and speaking of his fine saucer, looks like that thing's about to explode. This flying saucer inflames and on the verge of combustion, as well as these wavy red heat lines should remind you that these patients are at high risk for hyperthermia due to increased perspiration. Well, we don't even have to speak the same language to see that this alien is clearly not happy with his spaceship exploding. He's screaming, adored. Which totally has to be a cuss word in alienese. This should remind you that patients with hypohydrodic ectodermal dysplasia may also have an autosomal dominant or recessive mutation in the ectodisplation receptor associated death domain, or EDARDD for short. Oh, and as an added bonus for your acronym fanatics out there. You can use this as an amonic to recall the cardinal features of eczema, dyshydrosis, dysplasia, and retarded or delayed dentition. Well, maybe we can decode this alien language with these alien higher glyphics on the side of the spaceship. But, it's pretty hard to read given that it's burnt and scraped away from the crash. These difficult to read hieroglyphics should serve as a hook to remind you that these patients have absent ecrion glands and therefore no dramatic glyphics. It's also important to remember that patients with this disorder may also suffer from asthma, chronic sinus disease, and pulmonary infections. So, we've placed this oddly long-shaped entry gate to remind you of this. Alright, so it's clear not just anyone can get into this place. This KGB agent is trying to sneak in but seems to have been distracted by these drones. I mean, birds. Silly KGB agent. Does I know drones don't like snacks? If these birds look like the birds from our atypical micro-bacteria sketch, well, that's because they're supposed to. And the conspicuous snacks that kind of resemble immunoglobulins should remind you that hypohydrodic ectodermal dysplasia with immunodeficiency is another variant of AED. But it is specifically due to a mutation in IKBKG or previously termed NEMO, where patients are susceptible to recurring pyogenic or atypical micro-bacteria infections. To remind you of pyogenic infections, we've got our KGB agent rocking some… not so convinced in American camouflage, with this recurrent staff, auris, wizard staff, and streptococcus hawaiian lay. Oh, no. Is that NEMO? Looks like instead of shipping water, they ship this toxic nuclear waste, which is spilled and killed NEMO. Oh, man, I hate this place. This dead NEMO fish with the X on it and spilled out toxic goo with coral red debris should serve as an additional hook to remind you that patients with hypohydrodic ectodermal dysplasia with immunodeficiency have a mutation in the IKBKG NEMO gene. And the X should remind you that this is X-linked recessive. Furthermore, the coral red debris spilling out of the toxic waste bucket should remind you of an acid fast stain for A-typical micro-bacteria. Alright, I'm going to be honest, I think we've seen more than we're supposed to, so let's get the UF out of here and let's sum up the sketch. Hypohydrodic ectodermal dysplasia is a part of a heterogeneous group of genetic disorders with variable abnormalities of the hair, teeth, nails, and acrion glands. It is most commonly due to an X-linked recessive mutation in ectodisplation, aka ED1, as shown by our exotterrestrial display site 1 sign. The chain-linked fence with an X should remind you that this condition is most commonly X-linked recessive. This dry cracked land is to remind you that these patients present with hypohydrosis and the broken follicular blades of grass should remind you of hypotrycosis, which is another common feature of this disease. Furthermore, this super creepy rock formation that oddly resembles some dystrophic nails should remind you that these patients often have mild onika dystrophy. Pegsshaped or conical teeth are another common manifestation, as shown by these pegsshaped rocks in the exotterrestrial land in zone. Speaking of exotterestials, this alien with his giant forehead, large nostrils, and prominent chin should remind you of the abnormal faces associated with hypohydrodic ectodermal dysplasia. The dark circles under his eyes from his long journey should remind you of the classic darkening under the eyes of these patients as well. This flying saucer, which is on the verge of combustion, should remind you that these patients are at high risk for hypothermia due to decreased perspiration. The distraught alien screaming adored serves as a hook to remind you that these patients may also have an autosomal dominant or recessive mutation in the ectodisplacin receptor associated with death domain, aka EDARDD. These patients also have absent ecranglans and dramatic glyphics, as shown by the difficult to read hieroglyphics on the side of the spaceship. Furthermore, the oddly long shaped entry gate should remind you that these patients may suffer from asthma, chronic sinus disease, and pulmonary infections. You should also remember that hypohydrodic ectodermal dysplasia with immunodeficiency is another variant of HED that is due to a mutation in IKBKG Nemo, where patients are susceptible to recurring, pyogenic, or atypical micro-bacteria infections. This is shown by our KGB agent feeding the birds from our atypical micro-bacteria sketch, and he's feeding them an interest in snack that resembles immunoglobulins. And the dead nemo fish with the X on it and spilled out toxic nuclear waste should serve as an additional hook to remind you that patients with hypotherodic dysplasia with immunodeficiency have a mutation in the IKBKG Nemo gene, and the X should remind you that this is X linked to recessive. Lastly, the coral red debris spilling out of the toxic waste bucket should remind you of an acid-fastain for atypical micro-bacteria. Alright, guys, this sketch was clearly out of the world, and I don't know about you guys, but I am going to go watch some alien conspiracy theory videos. So until next time, later, Earthlings!
