TRANSCRIPT: Histiocytoses 2
============================================================

Welcome to the History Museum's Tennis Court. Today we're learning about Langerhand Cell Histiocytosis or LCH. First off, take a look at this kid holding a long-handled tennis racket representing Langerhand Cell Histiocytosis. This is a type of malignancy involving cells which aren't true Langerhand cells but are rather immature hematopoetic myeloid precursors. Next we see a cancer crab representing that LCH is a type of malignancy. The baby indicates that LCH primarily affects young children usually between the ages of one and three. The baby is white to signify that white patients are more commonly affected by LCH than black patients. Check out this raft with a V600 engine symbolizing the B-Raff V600E activating mutation which is present in 50 to 60% of LCH cases. And notice the sad baby right next to the raft highlighting that this mutation predicts a poor prognosis. See the map that the baby is holding? The map symbolizes the activation of the map kinase pathway due to the B-Raff V600E mutation. His logical findings are depicted by the bench. Because this is a Langerhand Cell Histiocytosis, we would expect to see Langerhand cells in the epidermis that stain positive for all of the Langerhand cells that we covered in the last graphic, including S100, CD1A and Langerand, also known as CD207. Langerand is shown again by the kid holding a long-handled tennis racket and remember that it's also called CD207 by his 207 main jersey. In front of them is a bear representing Burbeck granules or bearbeck granules and the stack of $100 bills represents that these cells stain positive for S100. And the number one finger represents CD1A positivity. From the court, there's a 68 plate symbolizing that CD68 is also positive in LCH. Notice there's no ham on top of the plate indicating that ham 56 is actually negative in LCH. Clinical features and prognosis are shown by this baby covered in mud. Signifying that prognosis is determined by the extent of systemic involvement, kind of like how the amount of dirt covering this baby tells us how well or unwell it's doing. In LCH though, it's not just the extent of organ involvement but we also consider the risk organ involvement, which refers to the involvement of specific critical organs that when affected indicate a higher risk for severe disease and worse prognosis. The liver-shaped couch and spleen-shaped pillow symbolizes the involvement of risk organs including the liver and spleen. Bone marrow is another risk organ that factors into the prognosis and is represented by the bone on top of the armrest. As of this, bone marrow biopsy should be done in all patients suspected of having multi-system disease. A skeletal survey is also part of the initial workup and is shown by this baby holding an X-ray. Other important tests include a CBC, LFTs, electrolytes, and an ultrasound of the liver and spleen among others. The baby sitting on top of the couch holding a skull demonstrates that bones, particularly the skull, are the most commonly affected organs in LCH, which is why the baby is sitting on top of the couch. The next most commonly involved organ is the skin. When the skin is involved, the liver is often affected, hence the baby sitting on top of the liver-shaped couch. Take a look at this baby wearing a red cap with snowflakes, which represents the clinical presentation in infants with pedechial, seborriac dermatitis-like eruptions on the scalp. Its red diaper also symbolizes that the groin can also be involved. Progression from skin-limited disease to systemic involvement is uncommon, but skin-limited disease only occurs in about 2% of patients. However, several other sequelae can occur. We will show these in the back of the court. First off, the water fountain with a constant flow of water depicts diabetes and sypitis. Orthopedic problems like facial asymmetry or vertebral collapse can also occur in LCH, and this is shown by the tennis player's asymmetric face paint. Hearing loss may also occur as shown by the player's unplugged headphones. Finally, neurological issues like neurodegeneration can also occur shown by the neurological electric shock coming off of the headphone wire. Pognosis of LCH is shown by this baby holding 3-quarters on top of the risk-organ couch. To indicate that 75% or 3-quarters of patients have a 5-year survival rate when the risk organs are involved. Off of the couch, the kid giving a thumbs up represents a 100% survival rate when no risk organs are involved. And recall that sad baby by the raft to remember that B- raft of E-600 emutations predict poor prognosis with increased chances of neurologic and pituitary issues as well as multi-system disease with risk-organ involvement. Treatment for LCH is depicted on the right side of the graphic. A hydrocooler with a clobatusol clover symbolizes potent topical steroids for mild, cutaneous disease. For diffuse disease, the moon represents prednisone, and the vines being blasted with water symbolizes vin-blasting. Let's recap this graphic. Fingerhand cell histiocytosis is represented by the long-handled tennis racket. It's a type of malignancy as shown by the cancer crab, and LCH typically affects young children shown by the baby. The raft with a V-600 engine denotes the B- raft V-600 E- mutation. A sad baby by the raft indicates a poor prognosis that's associated with this mutation, and it's holding a map symbolizing that this mutation affects the map kinase pathway. Stalky findings are shown by the kid with a long-handled racket for Langerin positivity. The main 207 shirt represents that the other name for Langerin is CD207. The bear represents Bringerbeck granules, and he's holding a number one foam finger to represent that these cells are also CD1A positive. The 68 plate with no ham on top of it represents that Langerhand cells will show CD68 positivity, but ham 56 will be negative. Baby covered in mud reminds us that prognosis is primarily determined by the extent of systemic involvement. Remember prognosis is not just about how many organs are involved, but which specific organs are involved. This is shown by the liver-shaped couch with a spleen-shaped pillow reminding us of the risk organs being the liver and the spleen, as well as the bone marrow shown by the bone on the armrests. When these organs are affected, there's a higher risk for severe disease and worse prognosis. A baby with an X-ray reminds us to get a skeletal survey as part of the workup. The baby sitting on top of the couch holding a skull reminds us that bone is the most commonly affected organ with the skull being number one. The baby wearing a red cap with snowflakes represents the clinical presentation of infants with a particular subriac dermatitis-like eruption and crusted papules on the scalp. It's also wearing a red diaper since there can be accompanied groin involvement. Unlimited disease usually does not progress, but this only occurs in about 2% of patients. The sequelae that you need to know are covered in the back of the court with the water fountain representing diabetes and sypitus, the asymmetric face paint representing facial asymmetry or vertebral collapse, and the unplugged headphones representing hearing loss. Finally, electrical sparks from the headphone wire represents neurological issues like neurodegeneration that can also occur. For prognosis, remember the kid with three quarters sitting on the risk organ couch representing a 75% 5-year survival rate when risk organs are involved. When risk organs are not involved, as shown by this kid who's sitting off of the couch giving a thumbs up, there's a 100% survival rate. And don't forget that sad baby on the B-Raff raft reminding us that B-Raff V600 emutations are predictive of core prognosis. Lastly, we covered treatment on the right side with potent topical steroids being used for mild cutaneous disease such as clobatusol, as shown by that clobatusol clover on the hydrocooler, and more aggressive treatment for diffuse disease including prednisone as shown by the moon, and vignblasting as shown by the vines being blasted. That wraps up our graphic on Langerhand cell histiosytosis. Let's move on to the non-Langerhand cell histiosytosis in the next graphic. We'll see you there.
