TRANSCRIPT: Human Papillomavirus (HPV)
============================================================

Welcome back. I hope you're gearing up for summer because, regardless of whether you're a happy camper or a worry-word, we're about to get froggy. In this sketch, titled, WarriWords Campground, we'll be covering the highest-yield facts about human papilloma virus. To remind you that we're talking about HPV and warts, we've scattered frogs all around the sketch and it's worth mentioning that the sketch is divided into two main sections. The foreground and left side of the sketch will all relate to the key basic science details and the right side of the sketch will be used to help you remember the highly testable HPV subtypes that cause unique, cutaneous manifestations. Alright, I'll pull on up. Let's get going. The first thing you need to know is that there's too much to know. HPV has over 100 subtypes and more research than you could possibly whittle down in a lifetime, but for the purpose of this sketch, we're going to focus on the basics of the alpha genus. Oh, speaking of alpha, the gatekeeper to this campground does look like a friendly fellow, doesn't he? Hopefully this guy looks familiar, but uh, if not, I guess I'm dating myself. Alpha is an iconic representation of 1980's television and will serve as a reminder that this sketch only depicts alpha subtypes. Recall that the beta genus is implicated in EDV. Recall HPV viruses, these are all encoded for by double stranded DNA. So let's add a double helix shaped entry gate to our campsite. Before we can go join the festivities, pay close attention to the signs along the road because they're gonna help you figure out the basics of the campground as well as the key proteins needed for HPV replication. Note that the stand for the signs is shaped like the letter L. That's because when talking about HPV proteins, there are main families L and E, which are abbreviations for late and early. This small detail can go a long way if you reason through it. Early proteins are those expressed early in the viral life cycle when the virus is within the keratinisite and drive DNA replication while late proteins are structural proteins that are required to build the capsid and allows for transfer outside the cell. Once you know that, you have to know that L2 is the key protein responsible for viral entry to the cell. So recall that the entry sign for the campground has a two duck on it. However, the major structural protein is L1, so we've included a one sword and the word structure is written on it so that the campers know where to pitch their tent. Now, speaking of tent, someone must have started their tent but just gave up, leaving it all crumpled and wrinkled on the ground. Notice how the tent rods form the letter E and the campers have marked their campsite with a four flag. That's because E4 is responsible for disruption of the cytokaritin network resulting in formation of coilo sites. Personally, I think a crumpled tent is the perfect image of a coilo site. But the type A personality in me is highly disappointed that these hooligans just left their tent and they went and goofed off. I mean, the first guy is hitting golf balls at a Molotov cocktail and his buddy is throwing boomerangs at root beer. Doesn't even make sense. Or does it? Recall that the golf club is our recurring hook for the number six while a boomerang is our recurring hook for the number seven. And we are now introducing the Molotov cocktail as a recurring hook for P53 while the root beer bottle will be our recurring hook for retinoblastoma or RB. In the case of HPV, remember that E6 inhibits P53 which in turn leads to a decrease in apoptosis, increase in replication. Additionally, E7 inhibiting RB leads to loss of inhibition of transcription factor E2F, resulting in increased expression of genes required for DNA replication. Okay, let's move on to the other side of the campground where hopefully things are going to be a little less wild and we'll be covering some of the high yield subtypes and their associated warts. Oh, maybe it's not going to be less wild. What on earth is this little girl doing chasing a duck with a sword? This barefoot little girl represents a classic population to get common warts and while there are lots of variants you could memorize, the information is not really relevant clinically. And for tests, I try to just remember the top few, specifically HPV types 1, 2 and 4. So remember that this little girl is holding a one sword, chasing a two duck, and there's another four flag on the ground behind her. Also, know that the same subtypes are responsible for mere mecia warts, which is simply a special look and plantar wart and you can use the imagery of the girl being barefoot as a way to remember plantar warts. Fortunately, the little girl isn't looking behind her because her dad is brutally butchering one of her friends with a boomerang. Perhaps because he couldn't find his sword? This man wearing a butcher's apron with blood on it using a seven boomerang to butcher a two swan should remind you of butcher's warts, which are due to HPV types 2 and 7, which occurs in, yeah you guessed it, butchers and is usually found on their hands. Man, I thought camping was supposed to be relaxing. Now here we go, this guy sitting by the fire he has a figured out. Let's go see what he's up to. Notice how there are a lot of little flat top stumps to sit on scattered around back, which should remind you of the small flat toped papules of a Ruka Plena, aka flat warts. One way I remembered this as a first year resident was HPV 3 and 10 got flattened, but being a dermatologist, I found I pervert visual mnemonics better. Unfortunately, some love stricken camper has carved a three heart on this stump to remind you of HPV type 3 and our happy camper is wearing a one sword on his hip and a zero crown on his head to remind you of HPV type 10. Alright, let's do a quick wrap up and get out of here. This sketch covers the basics of alpha genus of HPV, which is responsible for the majority of warts you'll see in clinic. We used alpha as our gatekeeper to remind you of alpha, and the gate is a double stranded helix to remind you that these are double stranded DNA viruses. The key proteins you need to know are on the left and there are two main families, L and E proteins, which stands for late and early proteins. L1 and L2 are both structural proteins. You should try to remember these as L2 being required for entry of the virus into the cell and L1 is a major structural protein. We've shown this by having the two swan entry sign and one sword structure sign. Behind these signs are hooks for E proteins. E4 is shown by the four flag and is responsible for the formation of coilo sites, which are classic findings on histology. The hooligans breaking stuff in the background are representative of the E proteins that break the cell's ability to regulate proliferation. Namely, E6 is shown by the golfer interferes with P53, which is shown by him hitting golf balls Rp53 Molotov, and E7 shown by the guy throwing seven boomerangs interferes with RB, which is shown by the root beer bottle. The barefoot common little girl is to remind you of plant her warts and common warts, which commonly occur in children and are due to HPV types 1, 2 and 4, as shown by the one sword that she's holding, the two duck that she's chasing, and the four flag behind her. Her dad, the butcher, should remind you of butcher's warts, which are caused by HPV types 7 and 2, which is why we've shown him using a seven boomerang to butcher a two duck. Lastly, flat warts are due to HPV types 3 and 10, and are shown by the flat top stumps in the background and a three heart carved into one on the right and the guy wearing a one sword and zero crown. Alright, thanks for tuning in. If you've been enjoying the content then please follow us on social media and share our content with your friends.
