TRANSCRIPT: Henoch-Schonlein Purpura (HSP)
============================================================

Everybody was kung fu fighting. Those guys were fastest lightning. In fact, it was a little bit frightening. Oh, oh, sorry, I didn't see you there. Well, welcome back. In this sketch, we'll be covering Hinock's Seanline Purpra, also known as HSP. And checking out the ancient Chinese art of Shaolin Kung Fu. This sketch will be broken down to four main sections. First, the center will cover our general features. On the right side of the sketch, we'll cover the features of adult on-site HSP. On the left side, we'll cover the key features of childhood on-site HSP, which is by far the most common presentation. Lastly, we'll talk about the treatment options for HSP, with our hooks primarily in the left foreground, but some will be spread out throughout the sketch. Let's start by taking a look at our Shaolin monk. He's holding a traditional fighting staff and striking a rather limber action pose. The Shaolin monk should serve as the main hook for Hinock's Seanline Purpra, and he looks quite formidable. But what about his opponent? It looks like he could have ferret a little bit better. Our opponent and his boar stay will represent the four classic features seen in HSP. The most important and testable, cutaneous feature is palpable Purpra, and this is seen in 100% of patients. Classically, the Purpra covers the buttocks and legs, but it's worth knowing that they can develop on the upper body. So, remind you of Purpra while recurring palpable Purpra polka dots to opponent's buttocks and legs. Notice how he's on his knees and hunched over? He must have been hit pretty hard in the stomach to make an vomit collapse. And the poor guy landed on a rock and obviously heard his knee. But in case it's not obvious, notice a small red lightning bolt's coming from his knee. This is to remind you that our througes and myouges are common in patients with HSP. Lastly, take a look at his sweet satchel. Doesn't it kind of look like a kidney? Sure does. That's because the most serious complication that can occur in patients with HSP is renal involvement and the risk of progression to end stage renal disease. This can occur in to one to three percent of patients. The symptoms of palpable Purpra are througes, GI involvement and renal involvement are known as the tetrad of he-not-shonline Purpra. Now that we've covered the general features of HSP, let's talk about the important features of adult onset HSP, which will be represented in the back right hand portion of the sketch. And here's our first observer. Notice how he's rocking a purple polka dots t-shirt and a kidney satchel? Despite the fact that Purpra is most commonly on the lower body, in adults, Purpra above the waist are associated with an increased risk of glomerulina fritis. So try to remember that this character is the only one with Purpra above the waist because this is an important feature in adults. And look, he's even brought a date with him. But the woman he's brought clearly isn't enjoying this as much as he is, and you can probably tell that she's not having a good day. First, her healthy size of drag or to this barbaric exhibit, but on top of that she's ruined her fabulous invogue, Purpra Polka Dot Pants by sitting in, well, what I hope is mud. The mud on her pants and conjunction with the man satchel should help remind you that the adult form is more commonly associated with an aggressive course with diarrhea and chronic renal insufficiency. Lastly, you should know that adult onset HSB can be associated with underlying malignancy. Solid organ malignancy is more commonly than hematologic. Specifically, lung cancer has the strongest association with HSB. So check out the doors on on temple. We've added our recurring cancer crab to the doors as the temple's sacred seal, but also notice how the doors are shaped like lungs. This is to remind you that it's a lung cancer with the most common association to HSB. It's also worth noting that in the adult form of HSB, the legions more commonly present with vesicular bull's lesions and cutaneous necrosis. So we'll put this balloon guy here in the right hand side, so you'll associate it with the adult form. The tub of balloon should remind you the vesicular bull's lesions. Now let's shift our attention to the left hand side of the sketch. We'll discuss the important features of childhood onset HSB. Remember that HSB is far more common in children, and that's evident because look at this flock of bright eyed and bushy tails. This must be a school field trip, but I'll tell you what, I am super jelly of this kid in the front. Not only does he have those sweet, prepared polka dot pants and a hip Hawaiian lay, he's got a legit staff. It almost looks like a wizard staff that Gandalf would use. I sure hope he gets an autograph for that thing. The polka dots are of course to remind you that essentially 100% of patients will have palpable perpera on their lower body. You also have to know that the most common trigger is streptococcal pharyngeitis, so remember his lay around the neck. There are numerous infectious triggers. Among these are staff aureus, so remember the wizard staff. Parbo virus B19 and cux acu virus. So let's add this kid playing with a toy B19 bomber for parbo B19. I'll put this cockatill on the wall just chilling for cux acu virus. This is the coolest field trip ever. You get to watch kung fu play with toys and bring your pets. Sign me up, and up to 7% of cases in children they develop severe renal disease. And the onset of abdominal pain is a significant predictor of nephritis. As a reminder of this, put this poor kid with his kidney satchel on the ground gripping a stomach and pain. We'll also throw an extra kidney satchel here on the ground for good measures. In most cases, HSP results without serious complication, but in some instances, secidimatreatment is required. Notably, the onset of abdominal pain, severe arthritis, and or severe nephritis are indications for systemic therapy with prednisone, plus or mice as a thiaprine of cyclosporin. So we've worked our hydrocooler into the sketch here in the front left hand side to remind you of systemic steroids. On either side of the cooler, we'll put our asithiaprine astronaut, the boy's toy, and our cyclosporin mushrooms growing in the foreground. Other treatment options worth knowing include dapzone, which is useful to aid in the resolution of skin findings, and IVIG, which is specifically helpful in patients with rapidly progressing glomerulina fritis. So we'll add these yummy dapzone dim sum platers on either side and extra characters with the polka dots. To remind you that dapzone is helpful with skin findings, you'll also notice our IVIG IV growing on the walls. Can you see how it's reaching out and growing over the character's kidney satchels? Hopefully this can serve as a reminder that it's especially useful when patients develop glomerulina fritis. Before we wrap this sketch up, let's talk about two key labs you need to know. First, you should know that on direct immunofluorescence, you'll see IVIGA deposition in blood vessels. Our occurring symbol for IVIGA is an apple, and what's a field trip without some healthy snacks? This box with a hefty deposition of IVIGA apples should remind you of the IVIGA deposition seen with Hinoxha Online Purpera. Second, you need to monitor the patient with serial UAs to ensure they're not developing nephritis. And if they do, that it's not progressing. So to go along with our apples, we'll draw this stand here with some cool, refreshing lemonade, or strawberry lemonade, or some yellow beverage with a red stuff swirling in it. The lemonade should remind you of UAs, with a red strawberry stuff reminding you to look for hemateria or nephritis. Furthermore, the stack of solo cups next to it should remind you that you need serial monitoring. Now let's wrap this sketch up. We'll start in the center with our Shaolin monks to remind you of Hinoxha Online Purpera. The one on the ground is to remind you the four main features seen in most patients with HSP. Palpable Purper on the lower extremity seen in almost every case, and shown here by our Palpable Purpera polkadot on his legs and buttocks. Our througes or my algeas shown by his knee hitting the rock, abdominal pain with nausea and vomiting shown by him clinching stomach and haunched over vomiting and nephritis shown by the bag on his side. The right hand side is our adult forms of HSP. The adult form of HSP is notable because it's more commonly associated with the chronic and progressive course involving diarrhea. Remember that she sat in while I'm hoping she sat in mud and the man's kidney shape satchle to remind you of the kidney disease. But also remember that if adults develop Palpable Purpera above the waist as shown by his t-shirt with the Palpable Purpera polkadots, that they're more likely to get severe renal disease. Additionally, the cutaneous lesions in adult HSP are more often vesicular bullis or necrotic, so remember our bullis balloon guy here in the front. The last important feature of adult onset HSP is that it can be associated with malignancy. Most commonly are lung malignancies. So remember that the crab on the doors for cancer and that the doors are kind of shaped like lungs to remind you of lung cancer. We cover the childhood form of HSP on the left hand side of the sketch. Remember that this is far more common than the adult form as shown by the fact that there are far more children on the left hand side than on the right. Remember that in childhood form they still get Palpable Purpera on the lower extremities, but they also have a higher risk of progressing to nephritis. So remember the kidney shaped bags on the children and on the ground there to remind you of nephritis. A strong predictor of a child that's debout to develop nephritis is abdominal pain. So remember the kid hunched over grabbing his stomach on the ground for abdominal pain. And remember that he has a satchle on to remind you that it's associated with nephritis. The causes of childhood HSP are staff aureus, remember our wizard's staff, cocksacchi virus, remember the cockatil. Palpable virus B19, remember the B19 toy bomber, but most importantly and most commonly is strep-fair angitis. So remember the kid is wearing a lay. Most cases of HSP can be managed supportively. However, if they have an onset of abdominal pain, severe arthritis or severe nephritis, these are indications for systemic therapy. Our systemic therapies include systemic prednisone shown by our hydrocooler, with or without the addition of azithybrine or astronaut or cyclosporin, the mushrooms growing in the foreground. Other treatments that you should know for the test are that DAPSONE shown by our dim sum DAPSONE platters is helpful for skin findings. So remember that it's placed next to the character with polka dots. And IVIG shown by our IVIG IV growing on the walls. Remember that this is especially useful for nephritis, so we've shown it wrapping up some of these kidney shape satchels. On labs, you'll have IGA deposition on indirect immunofluorescence. Remember the IGA apple deposition over on the left hand side, as well as UAs that need to be collected serially, looking for nephritis. So remember our yellows, strawberries, lemonade, with the series of solo cups standing next to it. That about wraps her up. Check out our next sketch on the live bug motel to learn about urticarial vasculitis.
