TRANSCRIPT: IL-12, IL-23 and IL-17 Inhibitors
============================================================

Shhh! Are the cops gone? Let's go into the haunted house. In this graphic, we'll cover IEL12 and 23 inhibitors as well as IEL17 inhibitors. First off, take a look at this USA Intra Stellar astronaut costume. USA represents Oost to kinemab, and he has an Intra Stellar star to represent the brand name Stellara. This is a monoclonal IgG1 antibody against IEL12 and IEL23, and if you combine IEL12 and 23, it's kind of like 1, 2, 3. So notice the astronaut holding the easy as 1, 2, 3 blocks. Specifically, it binds to the P40 subunit of IEL12 and IEL23. To help you remember, P40, the astronaut is saying, 2 P40 and beyond. Oost to kinemab is after you're approved for adult and pediatric patients over 6 years old with psoriasis and psoriotic arthritis. So notice a recurring psoriasis skater with his broken skateboard representing psoriotic arthritis. You can remember that it can be used for patients older than 6 because 1 plus 2 plus 3 equals 6. So recall those 1, 2, 3 building blocks. Adverse effects will be shown by the bartender and zombies of the haunted house. Upper respiratory infections are the most commonly reported adverse effects. So take a look at this zombie blowing his nose to represent URIs. Maybe he is allergic to these tubers which represent tuberculosis reactivation, which is another adverse effect as patients are at a general increased risk of infection. There also have been reports of reversible posterior lucho and cephalopathy syndrome, which is represented by the zombie's reversible posterior or back facing white cat. It's white to represent lucho and cephalopathy. While Oost to kinemab is both an IEL12 and IEL23 inhibitor, there are also medications that are only IEL23 inhibitors. These will be shown by the bar since in this bar you must be older than 23 to drink. As an additional reminder of 23, we will use our number rhyming system to show that this bar has plenty free drinks since plenty free rhymes with 23. This partygour is so scared that he is guzzling down a drink to symbolize guzzolkamab. Is he holding a hair trimmer? This trimmer represents trim phia, which is the brand name. Next to him, this woman is stacking up raisins to represent rising chisimab. Her stack is so high that it is touching the sky, representing the brand name sky-rizzy. Finally, we have Dracula to symbolize till Dracula's kinemab. He has a bright illuminating flashlight to represent the brand name Illumia. Wait, I thought they were supposed to stay away from light. Anyways, guzzolkamab, rising chisimab, and tilldra-chisimab all bind to the P19 subunit of IEL23, represented by the 19 dollar admission ticket to the haunted house. The most common adverse effects include upper respiratory tract infections shown by the Sneezy bartender, as well as injection site reactions shown by the injected knife in the tree, although the risk is lower than with the TNF alpha inhibitors. This sign saying must be 17 represents the IEL17 inhibitors. This include second kinemab shown by this kid in a second place ghost costume. He is a ghost to represent the brand name co-syndex, or ghost syntax as we like to call it here at Dermatographics. This other kid holding up an axe represents Ixichisimab. He is told to represent the brand name tolds. Notice how the second place kid and the kid with the axe are both young to represent that second kinemab and Ixichisimab are both approved for pediatric patients older than six. Another IEL17 inhibitor is Brodolimimab, shown by the Bro wearing slick pants. Those slick pants represent the brand name to leak. What is he supposed to be? Catwoman? Brodolimimab antagonizes the IEL17 receptor, which is symbolized by him holding the signal wrist seeker. Notice that he is sad to represent there is an association with suicidality with Brodolimimab. Next up, take a look at the 17 year old dressed like a gymnast. She is on a beam representing Bimic isimab, which has the brand name of bin zelex. The IEL17 inhibitors are affected for psoriasis and psoriotic arthritis with the exception of Brodolimimab, which is only approved for psoriasis. So note the scaly psoriasis pads on that bro but without a broken psoriotic arthritis skateboard. Bimic isimab and psekikinimab are also effective against hydrodynamitis supertiva as shown by the hydra by the balance beam. The most common reported adverse event is nasopharyngeitis as shown by the sneezey zombie with the flaming tissue. Of note, IEL17 inhibitors can worsen inflammatory bowel disease, so take a look at the flaming GI hose on the walkway. Looks like this part of the haunted house had zombies from Canada to represent the increased risk of candidal infections. Let's sum up this graphic. In the haunted house, we covered IEL12, 23, and IEL17 inhibitors. First, we have the USA Interstellar astronaut representing Oostokinimab. The USA on his costume stands for Oostokinimab and the Interstellar star represents the brand name Stelora. He had an easy as 123 block set symbolizing Oostokinimab's dual action of blocking both IEL12 and IEL23. It's like counting 123 since it affects both. The catchphrase to P40 and beyond is a reference to Oostokinimab binding specifically to the P40 subunit of IEL12 and IEL23. Our psoriasis skater with his broken skateboard represents Oostokinimab's approval for both psoriasis and psoriotic arthritis. Moving on, we see a zombie blowing his nose which represent upper respiratory infection, a common side effect of Oostokinimab. Next to him, a pile of two birds symbolize the risk of tuberculosis reactivation, as patients on Oostokinimab as well as other biologics have an increased risk of infection. The zombie's reversible white snapback stands for reversible posterior lucho and cephalopathy syndrome, a rare but possible side effect of the drug. Next, we shift over to the bar where you have to be older than 23 to drink. This symbolizes IEL23 inhibitors. The bar offers plenty free drinks which rhymes with 23 as an additional reminder that these medications target IEL23 specifically. The guy guzzling a drink in fear represents Gusolkimab, and the hair trimmer in his hand reminds us that the brand name is trimphaya. Next, a woman stacking raisins symbolizes rhizon kizimab. Hertztok going up toward the sky points to the brand name skyrizzy. Finally, Dracula is here with a bright flashlight. The spooky vampire represents Till Drug Kizimab, and his flashlight symbolizes the brand name, Illumia, Ironix, and Dracula should be avoiding the light. All three of these IEL23 inhibitors, Gusolkimab, rhizon kizimab, and Till Drug Kizimab find the P19 subunit of IEL23, which is symbolized by the $19 admission ticket to the haunted house. Moving along, the bartender sneezing highlights upper respiratory infections again, a common side effect for IEL23 inhibitors. The knife stuck in the tree points to injection site reactions, another reported side effect, though less frequent than with TNF alpha inhibitors. Now, we come across a must-be 17 sign for IEL17 inhibitors. The kid in the second place Gusolkimab represents Sekkim Kizimab, with the ghost standing for the brand name Kosintex or Ghostsintex. Next, a tall kid holding an axe symbolizes exochemimab, and his tall height reminds us of the brand name Tull. Both of these kids are young, which hints that Sekkimab and exochemab are approved for pediatric patients older than six years old. Moving on, the sad bro represents Brodolimab. His slick pants symbolize the brand name Thalik, and the signal receiver in his hand shows that this drug antagonizes the IEL17 receptor. The sadness emphasizes the association with suicidality, a serious risk that comes with Brodolimab. Finally, we meet a 17-year-old gymnast on a balanced beam, symbolizing Bim Kizimab. The balanced beam also represents the brand name Bim Zellix. Bim Kizimab is not only used for psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis, but also for hydride at night as supertiba, represented by the high-dress standing by the balanced beam. A sneezing zombie with a flaming tissue highlights snazosphere and gytus, the most common side-effect of IEL17 inhibitors. The flaming GI hole symbolizes how IEL17 inhibitors can worsen inflammatory bowel disease. This part of the haunted house also has Canadian zombies, reminding us that IEL17 inhibitors increase the risk of candidal infections. That is all for the IEL12, 23, and 17 inhibitors. I hope we didn't spook you too much.
