TRANSCRIPT: Inherited Disorders of Hyperpigmentation
============================================================

Welcome back! Today we'll be covering genetic disorders of hyperpigmentation, and this sketch titled the colorful side of town. It'll depict the hidden back alleys on the wrong side of the tracks. Specifically, we'll be covering Dowling Degos, reticulate acropigmentation of Kitamura, which we'll abbreviate RAK, and McEun Albright Syndrome. Alright, let's kick this off by introducing our first hook, Double D's Gentleman's Club, which will represent Dowling Degos' disease, which is a disorder resulting from autosomal dominant mutations in carrots and five. To represent this, we'll include this autosomal dominant domino pattern on the doors to Double D's. Oh, look at this, we came on the right day! They've got a synchrodomyose special going on. Recall that this maracas are recurrent symbol for the number five. In this case, carrots and five. Clinically, the Dowling Degos typically doesn't present until adulthood and manifests with reticulate hyperpigmentation involving the axilla and groin, was spread into other inter-trijean sites and torso. So, recall this adult's only logo on the sign, and recall the model out front. Now, she must have had a good night. Just look at all that DOE! We've chosen to place the bills in her axilla groin and mammary fold to remind you that inter-trijeanous regions are the first and worst locations involved. While not shown explicitly, you should also know that these patients often have comodone-like lesions on the back or neck, pitted perioral scars, hydratinitis, superrativa, and or epidermoid cysts. Histologically, Dowling Degos classically shows increased pigmentation in an antler-like pattern with finger-like reedy ridges, and wouldn't you know, Double D's just happens to have the best racks in town. Now, not that kind of rack, get your mind out of the gutter, this kind. This rack or antler-decoration on the Double D sign should remind you of the antler-like patterning of pigment on histology. Furthermore, there tends to be a mild, paravascular infiltrate. So, let's add a vessel-like hose here on the ground, and some discarded limes scattered around. Oh, sorry, I need a minute. All those limes. Oh, they could have been margaritas. Okay, anyways, a rare form of the disease known as Galley-Galley may show up on tests, likely because that was a ridiculously dumb name. In this case, you'll find super-basilar acantholysis, and we like to use the imagery of a brick wall falling apart to represent acantholysis, kind of like this one, and recall that it's Galley-Galley because it's the wall of an alley. Making the trip to Double D's does not come without risks, though. You're going to have to navigate the feral raccoons if you want to visit this club. This feral raccoon is our hook for Mccoon Albright, which is actually due to post-sigotic activating mutations in the G-NAS-1 gene. To remind you that it's G-NAS, just remember this G-Nasty garbage that the raccoon is eating. The clinical manifestations are vast and involve various organ systems, but will include the most notable as various components of this nasty trash. First, and most relevant for dermatology, is Caféolais macules, which are often described as having a coast of main border due to their erratic jagged edges. Recall from our men's syndrome sketches that we use spilled coffee for Caféolais, just like this cup of discarded coffee which is spilled on the ground and the raccoon. But as an added bonus, recall the black bands on the raccoon's tail with these jagged coast of main borders. More important in the long run, however, you need to know that these patients with Mccoon Albright have numerous endocrine manifestations, including percocious puberty, hyperthyroidism, cushion syndrome, and hypophosphatemic rickets. For perccious puberty, we'll use this playboy magazine because, well, it's puberty. And let's add a thyroid bow tie to remind you of hyperthyroidism. And notice how the raccoon's legs are a little bowed for hypophosphatemic rickets. I know it's kind of a weak hook, but we'll also add this fish skeleton to remind you of bony changes, but in addition to rickets, they also develop polyostic fibro-displasia, which is essentially when bone is replaced by fibros tissue. So we'll add a fibrospiter web to the skeleton to remind you of polyostic fibro-displasia. Now I know we didn't show everything explicitly, but just recalled that the classic triad of Mccoon Albright is cafe ole macules, polyostic fibros-displasia, and endocrine dysfunction. Alright, let's move on and discuss reticulate acropigmentation of ketomurup, which is a very rare disease typically seen in Japanese patients and due to autosomal dominant mutations in ADAM-10, or atom-10 for short, which codes for dysentocrine metalloproteinase-10. For RAK, check out this colorful graffiti mural of hands on the wall behind the dumpster, where a reticulate like net and kite have been discarded. Furthermore, let's add a Japanese flag to the dumpster lid to remind you that it's seen in Japanese patients. Let's see what it looks like. Acro-ketomurup. Hopefully this imagery will be enough to recall the name. Oh, it looks like a kite isn't the only toy to have been discarded. Just look at this box of free toys. Hey, I call dibs on the atom model. This box of toys with an atom model, one sword and zero crown should remind you of atom-10, and the domino scattered around the box should remind you that it's autosomal dominant. On exam, findings include slightly depressed hyperpigmented macules on the dorsal hands and feet, hence why we've shown only the dorsal hands. However, other testable features include Palmer pits and abnormal dramatic glyphics. So, we'll add some pits to the asphalt and wall in some trippy, dramatic glyphic looking waves around the hands. Alright, let's wrap this sketch up before it gets too late. You don't want to be on this side of town after dark. This sketch, depicting a, well, colorful side of town, here's genetic disorders of pigmentation. Dowling Degos is shown by Double D's club and results from autosomal dominant mutations in carrots and five, as shown by the five maracas signifying the synchodemiospesial. Clinically, it presents an adulthood with reticulate hyperpigmentation involving the inter-trijones regions such as the axilla and the groin. So, recall our adult only club and the model with her bills tucked into the inter-trijones areas. On histology, you'll expect to see an antler-like pattern of increased pigment with finger-like, reedy ridges and a mild perivascular lymphocytic infiltrate, hence the rack or antlers on the sign and the vessel hose with limes. For the boards, know that a rare acantholytic subtype is called galley-galley, and we've shown this by the acantholytic brick wall of the alley. McEun Albright is shown with the raccoon digging through G-nasty garbage to remind you that it's due to post-psychotic mutations in G-nasty. The classic triad is Caffeole macules, endocrine dysfunction, and polyostic fibro-displasia. So, recall the spilled coffee and the black bands with coast of main jagged borders for Caffeole macules, the Playboy magazine and Thyroid Bowtie for endocrine anomalies, and the fish bones with the Fibro-spider web for polyostic fibro-displasia. Reticulate acropigmentation of Kitamura is shown on the right behind the dumpster with the Acrohands mural, reticulate net, and Kite. Recall it's more common in Japanese populations by remembered the Japanese flag on the dumpster lid. The box of toys with an atom, one sword, and zero crown is to remind you that it's due to mutations in atom-10, and the dominoes should remind you that it's autosomal dominant. Clinically, RAK manifests with depressed hyper-pigmented macules on the dorsal hands and feet, palm or pits, and abnormal dramatic glyphics. These features are shown by the dorsal hands, the pits or potholes in the asphalt and wall, and trippy, dramatic, glyphic-looking waves, respectively. Now, let's get out of here before that RAK couldn't give us rabies, or worse, we might venture into double-dees. I'll catch you next time.
