TRANSCRIPT: Kawasaki Disease
============================================================

Welcome to the Kawasaki International Motorcycle Race. All of our top competing motorcycle racers are ready to rave their engines to compete for the Kawasaki International Motorcycle Race title. In today's sketch, we'll be covering Kawasaki's disease, also known as acute febrile mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome. We'll place the main features of Kawasaki's disease in the center of the sketch, treatment options on the far right of the sketch, and other additional high-yield board fodder on the left side. And off we go! Wow, it is a great day for a motorcycle race. If you're just now joining us for this live TV broadcast, we are watching the Kawasaki Motorcycle Mid-Sized Bike Race, as shown by this decorative banner. This is to remind you that Kawasaki's disease is a medium vessel vasculitis. It's also important to know that it typically affects kids 5 years old and younger, and that affects males more than females, hence why this is a kid's motorcycle race. Just look at those kiddos go, huh? Oh, oh, looks like there's some trouble on the track. Our first racer has revved his engine a little too much and has crashed and burned over by the fence. Looks like this kid came all the way from across the world to compete for the Kawasaki title and is reping his Japan flag on his back. This is to remind you that Kawasaki's is more prevalent in the Japanese population. This little competitor, Crash and a Burning, is to remind you of the Crash and Burn Nomonic for signs and symptoms of Kawasaki disease. See is for conjunctival injection. R is for rash. A is for adenopathy. S is for strawberry tongue. And H is for hand and foot changes. And the burn part of the Nomonic is to remind you of fever. Furthermore, remember that Crash has 5 letters and that you need fever for 5 days or more, plus 4 out of 5 of the above signs and symptoms to diagnose Kawasaki's. But if you're more of a visual learner, like I am, we'll throw in some hooks for each of these findings. If you notice our Japanese competitors wearing his super cool red goggles, which are a recurrent hook for ocular findings, remember that the conjunctival injection and Kawasaki's is usually non-exedative. Oh no, how embarrassing. He ripped his pants right through the perineum. Yeah, you really can't recover from that one. Well, no, he got pretty banged up after that crash. He's got scrapes and bruises and his jacket is all ripped up too. These ripped garments are to remind you that the Kawasaki rash can be desquimated, particularly in the perineal area. However, it is important to realize that the rash and Kawasaki's is often polymorphous and can be sorely assiform, more billiform, or scarletiniform in nature. Whoa, his kid is not letting this crash get him down. He's sporting some super cool earrings, which are a recurrent hook for lymphadenopathy. It's important to remember that patients with Kawasaki's typically have cervical lymphadenopathy. Oh, now he's sticking his tongue out to the fans who are laughing about his ripped pants. Tung's out, buns out, I guess? That tongue looks a little red. That wreck definitely looks like it's going to leave him with a gnarly strawberry. Let's look at these big juicy strawberries painted on the racetrack wall. This red tongue and strawberries on the wall are to remind you of the strawberry tongue seen in Kawasaki's. These patients typically have fishered and erythymidus lips, as well as erythema of the oral and pharyngeal mucosa. Uh, did anyone fit him for the right size riding gloves and boots? I mean, before he went to this huge international race. Someone definitely dropped the bike. I mean, ball on this one. These oversized red gloves and boots are to remind you of the peripheral edema and erythema of the hands and feet with Kawasaki disease. Ugh, just great. He ran into my favorite snack at the snack bar, the edamame. It's everywhere. Edamame will be our recurrent hook for edema, which fits perfectly into this sketch, because edamame actually originated in Japan. Did you notice how the wheels on this kid's motorcycle kind of resemble targets? Well, this is to remind you of the targetoid lesions of erythema, multiforme, which may also occur on the hands and feet of Kawasaki patients. Another important find into mention is that these patients can also get desquemation of the hands and feet, most prominently in the peri-ungle areas. You can't see the desquemation because of his oversized erythymidus and edamidus gloves, but it's there. Just trust us. Well, it ain't no crash without the burn. Looks like this crash motorcycle has started a fire and is starting to make our racer feel a little toasty. This is to remind you that fever, in particular for five days or more, is required to make the diagnosis of Kawasaki disease. We'll place our recurring number five in Maraka, burning up in the flames as well to remind you just for good measure. Another interesting manifestation of Kawasaki's is orange-brown pseudo-chromonikia, thought to result from splinter hemorrhages in the nail bed. We'll represent this by drawing an orange-brown colored streak across the railing for the racetrack. Alright, our next racer is coming in fast and oh, another crash on the track! I thought this race was supposed to be for kids. Anyway, the second racer will represent the systemic manifestations of Kawasaki disease. That crash looks pretty gnarly. Looks like he might be out for the rest of the season because he heard his knee. This is to remind you that our throges are another common systemic symptom in Kawasaki disease. What a sick vest! Although, I will say it looks a little long like. This vest that kind of resembles lungs is a hook for pneumonitis, which can also be caused by Kawasaki disease. Just when I thought things couldn't get any worse for our racer, now he's puke and everywhere. Gross! And, uh, looks like he might have slipped in, uh, mud? Oh, I hope that's mud. This wretching rider with diarrhea is to remind you that Kawasaki can present with gastro enteritis. I also couldn't help but notice that this kid's diarrhea puddle is, uh, oddly liver-shaped, which should remind you that Kawasaki can also cause hepatitis, as well as pancreatitis. We'll make the seat of this kid's motorcycle pancreas-shaped to remind you of pancreatitis. You may have noticed earlier that our rider is mostly in yellow gear to serve as a hook for jaundice, which makes sense given the association with hepatitis. Boy, this dude must love anatomy, because not only does his vest look like lungs, his helmet looks like a brain. Rumor has it that he calls himself the brainiac biker. However, I am starting to get concerned that the brain helmet might be on too tight. Doesn't his face look a little droopy? The brain helmet and droopy face are to remind you that Kawasaki disease can also present with neurologic symptoms. Neurologic findings include aseptic meningitis, extreme irritability, and facial nerve paulses. Hence, the droopy face. Maybe you should put on these super-sweet goggles to make his droopy face not as noticeable. Our recurrent ocular goggles will represent anterior uvitis, which is another systemic manifestation of Kawasaki disease that you need to be aware of. The most important systemic complications to recognizing Kawasaki disease are cardiac manifestations, which include myocarditis, paracardial effusions, congestive heart failure, myocardial infarction, coronary aneurysms. Coronary aneurysms represent the greatest morbidity in Kawasaki disease. So we've placed our recurring cardiac valve trash can hook behind our second racer to represent the wide array of cardiac issues. Hey, where is the sac bar? They must be selling sausage links in Edamame? Huh, so versatile. Anyway, I guess the sausage wasn't much of a hit because it's in the trash. Maybe it's because these sausage links kinda look aneurysmal? These sausage links are to represent coronary aneurysms caused by Kawasaki disease. Amid all the chaos, it looks like we at least have some fans to see the big race. That number one phone finger our loyal fan is holding is to remind you that Kawasaki disease is the number one cause of acquired pediatric heart disease in the US. Now, let's quickly go over some farther workup and treatment for Kawasaki disease. Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, who called the cops? This race is only supposed to be fun in games, guys. What is that, a radar gun? I wonder the kids are crashing. I don't know about you, but anytime I see a cop with a radar gun, I always tap my brakes. That radar gun does look a little weird. Kinda looks like an ultrasound probe used for an echocardiogram. But we'll get back to that. Wait a minute, where did this kid come from? Looks like he's trying to take a shortcut and cheat to win the race. Also, he's totally breaking the rules by riding his own swan scooter and he has a golf club as a weapon. This isn't Mario Kart, buddy. Within the cop has his handcuffs to catch us cheat and perp. The ultrasound probe looking radar gun our cop is holding is to remind you that echocardiograms are often needed in Kawasaki disease to monitor for cardiac involvement at weeks two, six, and eight of the disease's course. Weeks two, six, and eight are represented by our kid riding the two swan scooter, holding his six golf club and the cop holding his eight handcuffs. Furthermore, it's important to note that Kawasaki patients should be treated with high dose aspirin and IVIG, and if given within the first ten days of illness, it will decrease the risk of coronary artery issues. Aspirin is usually never recommended for children, so this is why test riders love to ask about this in particular. We'll remind you of this by placing the sign on the racetrack that says aspire to remind you of aspirin, and we've placed our recurring number one sword and zero crown on the sign as well to remind you that has to be given within the first ten days. We'll also place our recurrent IVIG-IV growing on the railing over here to remind you of IVIG. What's a motorcycle race without our steroid hydrocooler for our racers? This steroid hydrocooler is to remind you of corticosteroids as another treatment option for Kawasaki disease. This giant T-Rex obstacle for our riders is to remind you that methotrexate can also be used. Lastly, our super fan dude is sporting his super cool cyclops eye shirt to remind you of cyclophosamide, and he's gabbing away to his friend about this crazy race on his TNF alpha phone to remind you of TNF alpha inhibitors as another treatment option. Well, and there you have it folks, I don't know if it was a good race, but it was definitely something. Anyways, let me give you a recap of everything we saw on this broadcast today covering the Kawasaki International Motorcycle Race, also known as Kawasaki disease. Our decorative midsize bike race banner hanging in the background is to remind you that Kawasaki disease is a medium-fessel vasculitis. This race is also a kid's race, which is to remind you that Kawasaki disease typically affects kids five or younger, and it will often affect males more than females. Our first Japanese racer who has crashed is to remind you that Kawasaki's is more prevalent in the Japanese population. This epic crash is to remind you of the crash and burn mnemonic for signs and symptoms of Kawasaki disease. B is for conjunctival injection, R is for rash, A is for adenopathy, S is for strawberry tongue, and H is for hand and foot changes. And the burn part of the mnemonic is to remind you of fever, but don't worry, we'll summarize the hooks for each of these findings. First, remember that our racer is wearing his super cool red goggles, which are a recurrent hook for ocular findings. Remember that the conjunctival injection in Kawasaki's is usually non-exedative. These ripped garments are to remind you that the Kawasaki rash can be desquimated, particularly in the perineum. It's also important to remember that patients with Kawasaki's typically have cervical lymphadenopathy, as represented by his lymphadenopathy earrings. The rider sticking out his red tongue and the strawberries painted on the wall are to remind you of the strawberry tongue seen in Kawasaki's. These patients typically have fishered and erythematous lips, as well as erythema of the oral and pharyngeal mucosa. These oversized red gloves and boots and his epic crash right into the edamame snack bar are hooks to remind you of the peripheral edema and erythema of hands and feet with Kawasaki disease. Furthermore, the targetoid appearance of the motorcycle wheels are to remind you that erythema-multiforme type lesions may also occur on the hands and feet in the setting of Kawasaki patients. Another important find to mention is that these patients can also get desquimation of the hands and feet, most prominently, in the peri-ungal areas. The fire caused by a crash motorcycle is to remind you of fever, which is an important manifestation of Kawasaki disease. Remember that patients need to have a fever for five days or more to make a diagnosis, as shown by our number five maraca, which is up in flames. Another interesting manifestation of Kawasaki's is orange-brown pseudochromonikia, shown by our orange-brown colored streak across the railing for the racetrack. Now, let's quickly summarize the systemic signs of Kawasaki disease with our second racer, who has also taken a tumble and crashed his motorcycle. His injured knee is to remind you that our throges are common systemic symptom in Kawasaki disease. His sick lung-shaped vest is a hook for pneumonitis, another recognizable feature of Kawasaki's. His post-crasher-phomidin and diarrhea are to remind you that Kawasaki can present with gastroenteritis. The oddly-livered shape diarrhea puddle should remind you that Kawasaki can also cause hepatitis, as well as pancreatitis. The motorcycle seat is pancreas-shaped to remind you of pancreatitis. His mostly yellow get-up serves as a hook for jaundice, which also occurs given the association with hepatitis. His super anatomic brain helmet and droopy face are to remind you that Kawasaki disease can also present with neurologic findings, including aseptic meningitis, extreme irritability, and facial nerve paulses. He's also rocking his ocular goggles to cover up that droopingness. The ocular goggles are meant to represent anterior UVitis, another systemic manifestation of Kawasaki's which you need to be aware of. The most important systemic manifestation of Kawasaki's to know for test purposes are the cardiac manifestations, illustrated by a cardiac valve looking trash can behind our second racer. These patients can have several cardiac issues, including myocarditis, paracardial effusions, congestive heart failure, myocardial infarction, and coronary aneurysms. Coronary aneurysms represent the greatest morbidity in Kawasaki disease, as shown by our aneurysmol-appearing sausage links coming out of our cardiac valve trash can. We've also placed our loyal fan holding the number one foam finger next to the trash can to remind you the Kawasaki disease is the number one cause of acquired pediatric heart disease in the US. Now, let's quickly review the farther workup and treatments for these patients. The cop with his oddly ultrasound probe looking radar gun serves as a hook for echocardiograms. These are often needed to monitor for cardiac involvement in Kawasaki's disease at weeks 2, 6, and 8 of the disease's course. To remember weeks 2, 6, and 8, we've placed our cheating perp taking a shortcut to win the race in his two swan scooter and holding his six golf club as a weapon. Here we have our oblivious cop who's also holding his eight handcuffs. It's important to know that Kawasaki patients should be treated with high dose aspirin and IVIG, which should be given within the first 10 days of illness in order to decrease the risk of cardiac involvement. The aspire sign with our recurring number one sword and zero crown are to remind you of aspirin and that it has to be given within the first 10 days. Our recurring IVIG-IV growing on the railing is to remind you of IVIG. The steroid hydrocooler is to remind you of corticosteroids as another treatment option for Kawasaki disease and the giant T-Rex obstacle for our riders is to remind you that method Trexate can also be used. Lastly, our super fan dude wearing his Cyclops eye shirt is to remind you of cyclophosamide and his TNF alpha phone is to remind you of TNF alpha inhibitors as another treatment option. And that's a wrap. Hopefully next year's Kawasaki International Motor Race will run more smoothly. Alright, I'll see you next time.
