TRANSCRIPT: Langerhans Cell Histiocytoses (FINAL)
============================================================

Guten Tag and willkommen zuhrig! Today we'll be taking a stroll through these creepy woods to look for Hansel's lost sister and learning about cutaneous manifestations of Langer Hans's cell histiosytosis in our sketch titled Langer Hansel and Gretel. Namely, we'll be discussing Hashimoto Pritzer, Lederer Sevy, Hans Schuler Christian and Eosenephilic Reneloma. We will introduce and discuss these disorders in order based on age of presentation. So let's get started with this creepy Japanese shack and the sign that reads prize inside. Notice it's covered in ice cream. Hmm, how a luring. Well, I'll just make a short stop and say it and… No, wait a minute. This isn't right. This creepy shack with Japanese styling and the prize inside sign is to remind you of Hashimoto Pritzker, which is also known as congenital self-healing reticulohistiosytosis, which presents at birth or shortly after, with red-brown nodules which eventually break down to leave erosions, crust over, and heal within a period of weeks. To remind you of this, we've added brown stones on the outside of the shack. And I wonder what all these eroded holes are for? They look roughly the size of a child. Hmm, these erosions or holes and piles of loose flaky dirt represent the erosions and scale that follow the papules. Next, recall that this form is self-healing with these windowpains with red crosses on a white background. Finally, remember that it is skin-limited, because just like you should never go into this hut, this form will never go inside your body. As if a creepy hut wasn't enough to scare you off, just look at this letterbox. This letterbox overflowing with letters represents letter or seaweed histiosytosis. This is the most severe form, starts before the age of two and carries a poor prognosis. People add our recurrent two swan as a decorative ornament on the letterbox to remind you of the age of onset. The cutaneous features are variable and manifest as disseminated 1-2mm pink papules, postures, vesicles, peticia, crust, erosions, and impotigenization in a seborrheic distribution. These will be shown on the mailbox, where we've added some patina to the swan in a seborrheic distribution, while the purple polka dot peticia perpera should remind you of non-blanching peticia or perpera. Additionally, notice how the side of the mailbox is worn with erosions and holes, and rust is spread and up the side. These features represent the erosions and crust. On the ground next to the mailbox, there's this delightful flower bed that's been planted, but they need to water this a little more. The ground is fishery and cracking. This is to remind you that painful fishers are common. Oh wait, is that a skeleton showing through? You know what, I've changed my mind, even ice cream is not worth being in that house. This skeleton is to remind you that visceral involvement, including bone lesions, is common and results in a poor prognosis. Other clues to a poor prognosis is the presence of thrombocytopenia and anemia, so try to recall this broken red reflection ball on the ground and how it kind of resembles thrombocytes in a broken red blood cell. Just in case the skull isn't a strong enough hook, you can also recall the poor prognosis by remembering the letters in the letterbox, one of which has a picture of poor Gretel with missing on it. Well, that certainly portends a poor prognosis. Lastly, notice the lidic lesions on the letterbox post. These are meant to remind you of osteolytic bone lesions. Well, keep your fingers crossed for little haunts. Hansel here in front will be our hook for Han Schuyler Christian histocytosis. This form presents between the ages of two and six, with the classic triad of diabetes and sypitus, exoptalmus, and osteolytic bone lesions. Recall that the two swan is on the left of Hansel and will add this garden statue holding a six golf club on his right so that you can recall the ages two to six. Furthermore, on the base of the statue, we'll add these litig lesions so that you can recall osteolytic bone lesions, and we've drawn Hansel with some very big eyes. Seriously, calm down, dude. It's only ice cream. It's not worth it. In his left hand, you might notice he's carrying a bucket of water with a hole in it to remind you of diabetes and sypitus. While there are systemic symptoms in this disease, the prognosis is good with appropriate treatment. Notice how he's standing next to a random tire bump, which, to be honest, was probably the last chubby boy that came looking for ice cream. This tire bump is our hook for vasopressin, while the bone lesions are easily cured by curatage and being the ice cream fanatic that he is, Hansel has brought his own ice cream curate, or scooper. Possibly only 30% of patients with HSC have cutaneous manifestations, and while classically described as a triad, the vast majority do not present with all three features. Lastly, let's cover Eosinophilic granulomas, which presents between 6 and 12 and basically never involves the skin. To remind you of Eosinophilic granuloma, we'll draw this spooky tree with our red Eosinophil red berries growing on it, and recall this carton of dozen eggs to remind you of 12 years old. Okay, the kid who brought those eggs probably deserved it. Fandalism, not cold, dude. This form presents with asymptomatic bone lesions, most commonly involved in the axial skeleton. So we're called a hole in this tree, and the ax sticking out of the tree with a handle made of what appears to be vertebrae. Creepy, yet resuring that the witch is resourceful. The vertebrae and ax should remind you of axial skeleton. While typically asymptomatic, these patients can occasionally have spontaneous fractures, so we've made this branch snap in to remind you of this. Like Hans Scholar Christian, the bone lesions in Eosinophilic granuloma are cured with curatorsh. Alright, let's sum up the sketch and go get some ice cream. Not from here, literally from anywhere else. The Japanese shack and sign that reads prize inside is for Hashimoto Pritzker or congenital self-healing reticulohistiosytosis. This presents at birth with red brown papules, which give way to erosions and crust, but spontaneously resolves over a period of a few weeks. This is shown by the red brown papules, eroded holes, and flaky crust-like dirt while you can recall that itself healing by remembering the crust on the windows. Letter R Ceewee is the most severe form and is shown in the front left by the letterbox. It manifests by the age of two with red brown papules, postules, peticia, erosions, and crust in a seborhic distribution. Recall the two swan with patina in a seborhic distribution. The purple polka dots, erosions, and rust in on the mailbox. Painful fishers are common and shown with the fissured earth, which has left a skeleton exposed to represent a porpoignosis and bone lesions. Porpoignosis and bone lesions are also shown with the missing letter and the eroded mailbox post. On labs, anemia and thrombocytopenia are porpoignostic factors, and shown by the broken gazing ball representing platelets and a broken red blood cell. Conned shoulder Christian is shown with Hansel and manifests classically between the ages of two and six with diabetes and sypitus, osteolytic bone lesions, and exopthalmos. This is shown with Hansel position between the two swan and the statue holding a six-golf club. The litig lesions on the statue base, his big bulging eyes, and the leaky bucket that he's holding. Recall that the prognosis is good with appropriate treatment, which includes vasopressin, the tire pump, and curatage of bone lesions, the ice cream scooper. Last is Eosinophilic granuloma, which doesn't usually have cutaneous features and presents between six and twelve, so recall the tree with Eosinophil red berries and the dozen egg carton. If it is symptomatic, it manifests with spontaneous fractures shown by the snapping branch, but most often involves the axial skeleton, which is the ax with a handle made of vertebra. Well, I hope you learned a lot, but at the very least, you better have learned one thing. Don't go into the creepy cottage in the woods. Alright, I'll catch you next time.
