TRANSCRIPT: Leprosy
============================================================

Welcome back you Sputting dermatologists and dermatosius. I'm glad that you decided to tune in today, instead of being a couch potato of course. Oh, and speaking of potatoes, this sketch, titled Taters Tubers, will cover the key features of leprosy. Now, before we get going, I want to explain that any time we want you to think of the classic or typical micro-bacterial infections, we'll use a potato like those featured here or the potato farm from our vasculitis sketches. Typically, typical micro-bacteria simply means either micro-bacterium leprosy or micro-bacterium tuberculosis, and in this sketch, it will be all about the leprosy. Also, pay attention to how the sketch is divided, because the features of leprosy, leprosy, abbreviated LL, will be shown on the left half, and the features of tuberculloid leprosy, abbreviated TT, will be shown on the right half. Now let's get into it. First of all, where am I? Because the potatoes and the chilly appearance of the scene, I'm thinking of high-o, but then I'm looking at this lion cage. Oh, okay, it's obvious, the farm is in Texas. We've shown it being cold, because the lesions in leprosy tend to favor cooler sights on the body, like the face, genitals, and extremities. And this lion cage with the nameplate Leo the Lion is to remind you that this side is dedicated to lapromatous leprosy, which results from infection in an individual with an impaired immune response. This impaired response allows for dissemination and widespread lesions, kind of like these widespread potatoes grown in the field. Notably, the lesions appear in numerous widespread, small, hypopigmented macules or papules, which may progress to diffuse infiltration. It's this infiltration that results in the classic coda-cromes of a patient with Leo 9 faceys and infiltrated ears. Of note, when there's infiltration of the brow with loss of the lateral eyebrows, this is called matarosis, and it's a board favorite. To remind you of leonine faceys and matarosis, just recall Leo back here. Hang it out. Now, down in Texas, nah, they don't believe in guard dogs. So I might get past the dog, but no one is going to mess with the lion. Another useful feature to recognize and be able to build a differential around is a saddle nose. It's the destruction of nasal cartilage resulting in the concavity along the nasal dorsum, which resembles a saddle. So in true Texas fashion, we put a saddle to ride Leo with right next to his cage. That'll remind you of saddle nose deformity. Oh, gross. What is that next to a saddle? Oh, never mind. I thought it was a giant scrotum, but it's just a grain sack. Recall that emla prey favors cooler sights, including the scrotum, and because of this, or kytus, with the resultant's sterility and gynecomastia, are potential complications of lapromeda's leprosy. Notably, the lesions of these patients have normal sensation, and while we have an included a hook for this, we've included a hook for abnormal sensation on the right hand side. So you can just recall that there's no nerve-related hook over here. Like I said earlier, the immune response in these patients is impaired and tends to skew towards a TH2 response, which is unable to contain the bacteria. This is important because this is why we develop widespread lesions, but also because the resultant histology in these lesions is due to this impaired ability to fight the infection. So notice that we've included an adorable two duck in the front left, grazing the field for bugs, to remind you that this is predominantly a TH2 mediated response. As an additional factoid, you can use this to recall that patients with LL leprosy are also more likely to experience a type 2 reaction, which involves deposition of immune complexes with resultant vasculitis and arithema nodosum-like lesions. But these reactions will be discussed in more detail in a later sketch. Now before we discuss tuberculoid leprosy, we need to first talk about the histology findings, because they're ripe for the picking on board exams, and you'll be expected to be able to make the diagnosis, then answer tertiary questions about this form of the disease. So, with that in mind, let's review the most notable features, but then you'll need to review slides to ensure that you're able to identify these features on a test. Like you might expect, this disorder is characterized by inflammation comprised of parasitized foamy macrophages, but because it's TH2 driven, there are not well formed granulomas. To remind you of foamy macrophages, recall this water trough, overflown with foam. Additionally, because there's a weak immune response, there will be tons of bacteria, which can clump up into balls called globye. I imagine globye as pink speckled balls surrounded by more basaloid inflammatory cells, which for our purposes will look like this grain feeder with a globusk shape and filled with pink grain feed for Leo. The bacteria and thus globye can be farther highlighted by a fight stain, which would be negative into tuberculoid leprosy due to the paucity of bacteria. Lastly, and something that I find really helpful for tests, is the presence of a grenzone. A grenzone is a band at the upper dermis between the inflammation and the epidermis, where there's a paucity of inflammatory cells. So in previous sketches, we've used a field goal post or end zone for grenzone, and doesn't this hay for it looks suspiciously like a field goal post. Well it should, because the chromatic leprosy is another etiology in the differential for presence of a grenzone. Alright, now shift your focus to the right hand side of sketch, where we'll cover tuberculoid leprosy, or TT for short. This will be exemplified by the farm sign which reads Tater's tubers. In this form of the disease, the patient's immune response is intact, and results in a single or few lesions, just like this solitary Tater on the sign. You know, I occasionally like to imagine myself acquiring a disease to help me remember it, and in this case, I would definitely have tuberculoid leprosy. It's just better for you. May that can't be right. Oh, it's their motto, that's right. All the better for you motto doesn't mean you should go hug and armadillo to try and get leprosy, but simply means that if you had to acquire it, tuberculoid leprosy would be better. The reason is because in this form, the response is predominantly TH1 driven, and thus, the immune system is able to form granulomas and contain the disease. To remind you of TH1, just recall the recurrent one sword leaning up against the barn. Yeah, big sharp objects come in handy on a farm. Stop being so skeptical about our sketches, huh? It's worth knowing that it's this TH1 response that results in a positive lepromant test, which is negative in LL leprosy. To signify positive lepromant test, let's add a pile of dirt here outside the barn and put a box with a picture of a syringe next to it. Again, it's something that is quite common on a farm. That is actually what makes farm so easy to use when making these sketches. Alright, while we're here, let's take a closer look at the barn. We'll learn more about the nuanced features and lesions of TT leprosy. Classically, the lesions appear as dry, scaly, hypopigmented plaques with lack of sensation. The border is often erythematous and raised while the sensor is atrophic. We've depicted this by showing the side of the barn as flaky, whitewashed paint, the gutter as protruding and red, and the atrophic wrinkled tarp covering a hole in the center of the roof. Man, this place has great taters, but it is getting worn down. I mean, if the barn wasn't evidence enough, just check out this irrigation tractor with the wheels falling off and the water and spickets falling apart. Say, those spickets look awfully odd? Kinda like neurons. Well, that's because in TT leprosy, neuron involvement is the rule and results with anesthesia and anhydrosis. This is key because on histology, one of the most notable features are bands of sarcoidal, also known as naked, granulomas, arranged horizontally along the neurovascular bundles in an east to west orientation. Let's remember this by adding a windvane on the top of the barn as pointed east to west. Alright, the last hook is one that I just had to add for fun. It's a nine-banded armadillo. Not only is he adorable, but he fits perfectly in a Texas scene, and just so happens to be a carrier for leprosy. Alright, as a peal in, as this sketch was, let's wrap it up and review the hooks. This sketch depicting Taters' tubers' farm covers leprosy. The potatoes should remind you that we're discussing typical micro-bacteria and specifically leprosy. We've divided it so that leprosy is shown by Leo the Lion on the left, and to burcule leprosy is shown by Taters' tubers on the right. In leprosy, the response is TH2-driven, hence the two duck. Because of this, the infection can't be adequately contained and disseminates with widespread lesions that may eventually coalesce with indoration. Although there are innumerable widespread potatoes growing to remind you of this, and that Leo the Lion and his lion ride in saddle are to remind you of the classic coda-cromb depicting a patient with Leo 9 faceys and saddle-nosed deformity. Recall that the scene is set in winter because lesions of leprosy like cooler sights on the body, such as distal extremities, face, and genitals. Oh, and speaking of genitals, this grody, scrotum-looking feed sack is to remind you of testicular involvement with resultant gyna-comastia and infertility. You need to be able to identify certain features of LL leprosy on histology. Most notable are the presence of a gren zone, numerous basilis which clump to form a globeye, and parasitize phomy macrophages in the absence of well-formed granulomas. This is shown with the field-goal post-looking hay for, the globeye grain feeder, and the water trough overflowing with foam. The right-hand side of the sketch is dedicated to tuberculoid leprosy, which is abbreviated TT and shown with the tater's tuber sign. Remember that if you have to be a leper, it's best to get TT leprosy because your immune system is able to control the infection. In short, it's better for you, and taters reminds you with their motto on their sign. This is due to the TH1 response as shown with the one-sword and resultant granuloma formation. This manifests clinically as a single to few hypo-pigmented plaques with air-ethymidus-raised borders and central atrophy, and is shown in the sketch by the features of the barn, the whitewashed flaky paint, the red protruding gutter, and the atrophic tarp covering the hole on the roof. On histology, the granulomas classically track east to west along neurovascular bundles, which is why the lesions are anhydrotic and anesthetic. So don't forget the broken neuron irrigation tractor and the wind-vane point in east to west. Additionally, the lepromand test will be positive because the immune response is intact, and this is shown with a pile of dirt next to the syringe box. Last but not least, the 9-banded armadillo simply serves as a cute reminder that armadillos are a carrier of mycobacterium lepre. Now, if you're loving the content, be sure to tell your friends about dermatomontics. You can even follow us on social media for exclusive updates. Alright, we'll catch you next time.
