TRANSCRIPT: Lichenoid Histology
============================================================

Oh, wee! What is that smell? Talk about a potent potable. Welcome back folks. Today, we're going to be discussing the histologic features of three basic lichenoid patterns, lichen planus, drug induced lichenoid reaction, and hypertrophic lupus. Before we get started, it's important to preface the discussion by saying that the entire group of disorders that fall into lichenoid interface have overlapping features, and with very few exceptions, will largely be differentiated based on clinical and laboratory evaluation. So, when approaching a case in real life, or on the test, recognize the pattern, recall the differential, and if possible, apply any history that's available. To make things harder, there's often secondary interface changes that overlap with vacuola interface termatitis. But if you're panicked, just look for single features, such as follicular plug-in, or the presence of eosinophils, which can help you limit the choices. So with all that in mind, we want you to use the sketch to remember the key features of a basic lichenoid reaction pattern, and provide a few clues that might sway you in one direction or another. Alright, now take a deep breath, hold your nose, and... Oh god. Let's go in. The first thing you'll note is the lime green band painted on the wall with lime decals, and this groovy, hot pink shag rug. This lime green band is to remind you of the classic appearance of a band of lymphocytes in the superficial dermis, and the pink shag rug is to represent the disruption of the basement membrane, both of which are present in all of the disorders and fall into the lichenoid family. Probably the most basic and most notable lichenoid dermatitis is lichen planus, and will signify lichen planus with this lp record player with an lp of little playa here on the left. It's well known that little playa shreds the beats, but he's really taken the analogy a long way by making his lp look like a saw blade. This saw toothed lp is to remind you of the classic appearance of the greedy ridges and lichenoid dermatosis, which is classically described as saw toothed, greedy ridges. I guess this kid's parents must be pretty lenient, and even looks like they allow him to have food and his pet in the room. But what is that? Oh, it's a civet. Yeah, civets are adorable. But in this case, it's also to remind you of sevot bodies, which are characteristic of lichenoid dermatitis, and are essentially just clumps of keratin, resulting from apoptotic keratinocytes. Also, in case you didn't know this, there is a very expensive coffee that's made from beans that were eaten by a civet, digested, and excreted prior to being roasted and brewed. What's up? Why would anyone want to pay for that? I have no idea. Anyways, I digress. So far, all the features discussed are non-specific, but a feature that can be helpful is the presence or absence of eosinophils. For the purpose of the boards and a good general role of thumb, lichen planus will have no eosinophils, period. Kinda like how there are no eosinophil red berries left in this berry container. Mr. Civet must have been hungry today, because not only did he eat the berries, but he's also gone to town on these melons. These melons should serve as a reminder that over time, the inflammation causes disruption in the melanosome transfer and resultant melanin dropout. Notably, in lichen planus, there should also be no pericaretosis, but instead compact orthocarytosis. As a general note, in our Dermpath sketches, we'll use a parachute to represent pericaretosis and we'll use a pile of papers for orthocarytosis. And speaking of a pile of papers, this kid has really fallen behind on his homework. Just check out that stack of paper. Oh, now it makes sense. This kid really needs to stop being a dope and smoke in the dope and study more instead. Recall that we'll use a water pipe such as this to signify drug-induced etiology. In this case, drug-induced LP. In contrast to LP, it's permissible, but not required to have eosinophils and pericaretosis. So let's give this little hippie some eosinophil red berries to munch on here next to his water pipe and a big picture of him skydiving on the wall, and the parachute should remind you of pericaretosis. Ah! Oh, never mind, it's just a prop. But man, does it look realistic? Just look at those giant muscles. You might say that they're hyper-trophied? If you're familiar with Dermnomonics, you probably already guessed that this giant wolf man represents hyper-trophic lupus, which also presents with a lichenoid interface on histology. Unfortunately, there aren't many defining histologic features to help distinguish from other entities on the differential, but the presence of a superficial lichenoid infiltrate in addition to deep can help because it raises the deep and superficial differential diagnosis. We'll have another sketch to cover this diagnosis, but for now, let's add an attendo DS to remind you of deep and superficial infiltrate. Oh, gross. Now, I'm not even sure what's in the beaker, but let's leave the plug-in, because the smell is bad enough as is. This beaker full of blue musonous goo and plugged off with a cork should remind you of muson and follicular plug-in. This can be useful in distinguishing from other diagnoses on the deep and superficial differential. However, if all else fails, you could order direct immunofluorescence, which will show the classic finding of a full house, just like this super-cool artwork behind the wolf man, which depicts a full house. A full house on DIF just means presence of IgG, IgA, IgM, and C3 along the basement membrane zone. Like all other lichenoid infiltrates, excluding lichen planus, the presence of eocinophils and pericaretosis is variable. Alright, let's wrap this sketch up and review the hooks so that we can get out before we catch something in here. This sketch covers the basic lichenoid interface dermatitis, which includes a number of diagnoses which require clinical and pathologic correlation to arrive at the correct diagnosis. The defining feature of all of them is a band of lymphocytic infiltrate at the DEJ and is shown by a lime green band going around the room with lime decals within. The prototypic disease is lichen planus and is shown by the LP player with the little play of LP playing. Recall that the feature of sawtooth 3D ridges is seen in most of these conditions and we've represented this with the sawtooth appearance of the LP. The vat bodies are also seen in almost all of these conditions and we've shown this with the pet civet munching on melons because over time pigment dropout may become prominent. However, recall that he's also finished off all of the eocinophil red berries by the LP player because LP strictly has no eocinophils and no pericaretosis, but compact orthocarytosis may be seen, hence the compact pile of orthocarytosis papers. On the right hand side we've shown the features of drug induced lichenoid reactions with the drug induced water pipe. It can have all the features discussed up until now, but when drug induced it's much more likely to have eocinophils and pericaretosis, so remember that this container is full of red berries and the pericaretosis parachute in photo on the wall. Hypertrophic lupus is shown by the hypertrophic wolfman in the center and is characterized by the features discussed thus far, but also typically has mucin in the dermis. Molecular plug-in and deep and superficial infiltrate. So remember the mucinous goo in the beaker, the cork plug, and the Nintendo DS respectively. But if all else fails, you could always slap a DIF on which would show you a full house of IgG, IgM, IgA, and C3. We've shown this with the full house artwork on the wall behind the wolfman. Woof, quick and easy. But be sure to take the quiz to reinforce the differentiating features of various lichenoid infiltrates and check out the lessons in our scope course to see the histology and a more complete list of features. Alright, we'll catch you next time.
