TRANSCRIPT: Lipomas
============================================================

Hey guys, welcome back. Today might be a hot one, but we're going to be keeping it chill in this sketch, which we've titled the lipoma luao, and we'll be covering the histologic differential for deep tumors of mature fat cells. Specifically, we'll discuss lipomas, angiolipomas, and spindle cell lipomas. They're all benign tumors composed of mature fat cells, plus or minus other various components, such as blood vessels, or banal spindle cells. Let's get started with the central hook, this cool kitty pool. Notice how the pattern on the pole resembles normal fat, with big, rounded, clear globules, divided by thin pink septa. This characteristic look can be seen in all of the tumors on this differential, but it will be the presence of additional features that will differentiate them. Notice that we've added a whole flock of our lipoma rubber duckies here in the pool. This is because all run-of-the-mill lipomas will simply be well encapsulated tumor composed of mature fat cells, not unlike these duckies, which are well encapsulated by the pool. It's also worth knowing the various disorders that can present with numerous lipomas, and we'll add hooks for each of these behind the pool, starting with the mom who's dressed like a maid. Her maid outfit should remind you of maid lunges disease, which is a rare disorder of fat metabolism that results in accumulation of subcutaneous fat around the neck, shoulders, hips, and upper arms, in addition to multiple benign lipomas. Hence, why we've drawn the maid with poofy shoulders and frills around the neck and included her in the sketch. Additionally, binae and riley ruvacalba and closely related cowdens disease may also feature lipomas in addition to numerous other findings seen with the group of disorders known as P10 hammertomasis syndromes. You can see our lesson on cowdens for more information. We'll again show these disorders with some delicious, healthy, binae and riley bananas, which she is serving, and a cute cowdent cow on her apron. The remaining disorders which you need to know include clove syndrome, which stands for congenital lipomatis overgrowth, vascular malformations, epidermal nevi, and spinal or skeletal anomalies and scoliosis. There's also gardener syndrome, burt hog dube, and familial multiple lipomatosis. So, I ask you, what would a good lube out be without a tasty spit-roasted hog? Nothing. So, we have one too. While BHD may not classically be on your differential for lipomas syndromes, these patients do often have lipomas and it should be on your radar. Additionally, look at the grass around the hog. Looks like they might need better yard care because it's overgrown with clover. These clover are termined you of cloves, while this garden in the back should remind you of garners syndrome. Lastly, recall familial multiple lipomatosis by simply remembering that this is a family gathering. Or you can just pretend that this flock of rubber duckies is a little family. Quack quack. Next, let's move on and talk about spindle cell lipoma, which will show on the left hand side of the sketch with this oddly spindle-looking tetherball pool. Silly grandpa, who plays tetherball by himself. What's even more embarrassing is that he hit himself with the ball. So, he's losing to himself. We've depicted a grandpa getting hit in the back by the tetherball because spindle cell lipomas typically present as rubbery nodules on the upper back of an elderly man. On histology, these lesions look an awful lot like regular lipomas being a well circumscribed tumor of mature fat, but also have interspersed areas of banal spindle cells, hence the spindle tetherball pool. But there should be large bundles of collagen often described as ropey collagen bundles. Personally, I find this a little subjective to interpretation, but hey, we'll include an extra tetherball and a coiled rope for ropey collagen just in case it's something that you find helpful. If you're wanting something that's a little bit more objective, however, shift your focus to this little sandbox in the back. Notice how we've made the border of the sandbox out of these large pieces of wood. That's because they're actually mass from pirate ship. Or at least someone told me that. These mass are to remind you that in younger lesions, there are typically numerous mass cells present. Additionally, because there are fibroblasts in these lesions, the spindle cells will stay in positively for CD34. And wouldn't you know it? They're just happened to be some kids playing in the sandbox. Notice how the girl has constructed a beautiful three heart out of sand and the boy's wave in a four flag. But we also show the boy wearing a shirt rocking his favorite player's number 34. In case you didn't know, the number 34 was Shaquille O'Neill's jersey number when he played for the Lakers. Now, if you're not interested in having sand in your underwear for the next three hours, don't worry. We've got lots of other activities. On the right hand side of the sketch, notice the dad holding this oddly vascular looking hose, which should remind you that this area of the sketch is designated to features of an angiolipoma. Note that angiolipomas look just like their name is implied. They're lipomas with lots of blood vessels. Specifically, there are lots of small capillary-sized blood vessels. So we'll add this cool water wiggle sprinkler behind the dad with bunches of tiny hoses to remind you of the small capillary size blood vessels. This to head is looking a little confused. It seems that his hose is barely drippling water. To make things worse, he spilled his red colad. The clogged hose and spilled red colad are to remind you that additional features commonly seen include scattered microthrombi and extravizated red blood cells. Lastly, you should know that angiolipoma is on the entities included in the painful dermal nodule differential diagnosis. A common mnemonic to remember this differential is bangle, which stands for blue rubber blebenevis, angiolipoma, neuroma, glomestumer, lyomaioma, and ecrindspyrid noma. So to recall this little factoid, let's add a little girl in the back playing croquet who happens to be wearing bangles. Oh and for those of you who don't know what bangles are, they're these rigid pieces of jewelry similar to a bracelet that originated in India. Yeah, the more you know. Furthermore, notice how the croquet hoops also resemble bangles. Oh, she needs to work on her striking skills. And she whacked that ball right into this poor boy and has given him quite the goose egg. This boy grabbing his leg and pain with a big red nodule on it is to remind you that bangle is the mnemonic for a painful dermal nodule. Alright, let's pull it on through the hooks one more time and then let's get out of here. This sketch titled the lipoma luvau covers the key features of lipomas, spindle cell lipomas, and angiolipomas. They're all benign fatty dermal tumors. The kitty pole in the center should serve to remind you of the well circumscribed fatty proliferation seen in all the tumors and of which lipomas are comprised entirely. Recall that rubber ducks are our hook for lipomas, so we've drawn a flock of them floating in the pool. There's numerous disorders associated with the development of lipomas and we've added hooks for these behind the pole. Namely, made lungs disease, bnan riley ruvacaba, cowdans, burt hog dube, clothes, gardener syndrome, and familial multiple lipomatosis as shown by her mom dress as it made, her plate of yummy bananas, the cowdecoration on her apron, the roaston hog, clovers, garden, and a family of lipoma ducks. Recall that the poofs and bow on the mom's outfit are to remind you that made lungs disease also results in fat accumulation around the neck, shoulders, and hips. On the left, we cover spindle cell lipoma, which we've shown with the spindle-esque tetherball pool. This commonly presents as a subcutaneous nodule on the upper back and neck of elderly men. Hence, why we've shown grandpa getting smacked on the upper back by the tetherball. On histology, these lesions share features of lipomas, but they'll also have ropey collagen, hence the extra tetherball and rope. Additionally, young lesions typically have numerous mast cells, and the fibroblasts of all lesions sustain positively for CD34, so recall the sandbox that's bordered by mast cell mast, and the girl is making a three heart out of sand while the boy is holding a four flag for CD34. On the right, we cover angiolipomas, the dad is holding the blood vessel hose and should remind you of angiolipoma. On histology, these again share features of lipomas, but they'll also have proliferation of capillary-sized blood vessels, micro-thrombi, and red blood cell extravization. These features are shown by the water wiggle with capillary-like hoses, the dad's thrombost hose barely dribbling water, and the spilled red blood cell cool it. Finally, remember that there's a differential you should know for painful dermal nodules. It can be remembered with the pneumonic bangle, and angiolipomas are included in this differential. We've shown a young girl playing croquet where the hoops are meant to resemble bangles, and she's wearing bangles, and then she smacked the ball right into a poor boy, who's clearly in pain with a big red nodule on his leg. Bangle of course stands for blue rubber blebnevis, angiolipoma, neuroma, glomistumer, lyomaioma, and ecrime-spiridnoma. Well, that's all folks, but please leave us feedback if you want to, and if you think derma-nemonics is a great way to learn, then don't be afraid to recommend us to your friend, and maybe help us grow. Alright, I'll catch you next time.
