TRANSCRIPT: LUMBAR Syndrome
============================================================

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to a bright and sunny day at the most popular place to get your wood, the Lumbar Yard, where there's really nothing better than feeling the warm sun on your face, smelling the earthy scent from pine trees, and of course, taking a tour of our very own Lumbar Yard here at Dermnomonix. If you haven't guessed it already, in this sketch we will be covering the clinical features and treatment for Lumbar sacral syndrome. Now let's not Lumbar about, let's get started. Recall that Lumbar is an acronym for Lower Body Hamanjyoma, Eurogenital Anomalies, Mylopathy, Bony Deformation, Aenorectal Deformations, arterial anomalies, and renal anomalies. But to me, it's just a clever way to get confused. Instead, let's take a tour of the Lumbar Yard. It's also worth noting, but not explicitly shown, that it's not uncommon for the Hamanjyomas seen in these patients to fall into a subset known as infantile Hamanjyomas with minimal or arrested growth. Meaning they have little growth beyond patches of reticulated erythema with telangectatias with under 25% of the surface area demonstrating a proliferative growth phase. In general, any complication discussed in this sketch should also be screened for if you diagnose a segmental Hamanjyoma in the Lumbar sacral region. Now onto the man attraction, where our guide for the tour today will be Haman, which is short for Hamanjyoma. I mean, we tried to get Woody, Harrelson, but we were just barking up the wrong tree. So hey, hey man, it is, which isn't so bad, but it does look like he's a little tied up right now. I wonder how he got himself caught up by that crane. Notice his red strawberry underwear caught with the hook. This is to remind you that Lumbar syndrome causes segmental Hamanjyomas that present on the Lumbar and sacral spine regions, buttocks and genitalia, hence the strawberry underwear. Notably, Hamanjyomas in this area are also more likely to ulcerate, so we've depicted Hamanjyomas as having a hole in them from the crane to remind you of this fact. Huh, isn't there something strange about that crane and cable holding him up? While the crane looks like a vertebra, and the crane's cable looks very spinal cord aske. This is to remind you that myelopathies such as tethered cord or lipomylomininja seal can occur and if untreated may result in paralysis. Some clues to the underlying presence of this dangerous complication include presence of other midline lesions such as deviated gluteal cleft, lipoma, or overlying skin appendages, a monodler's which will not be discussed in the sketch. Now, let's all work together to get Haman down before he loses sensation in his legs. Volonthree, ready? 1, 2, 3, 4... Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Let's get a different stool to get him down with. This one is a janky short leg. This is to remind you that lumbar syndrome can present with limb length discrepancy, leading one leg to be shorter than the other. Hey, with the sun beaten down and our torrent not even starting yet, I'll tell you what. I am really pine named for some refreshing drink. But fortunately, if you see over-dare, the Lombard Yard has prepared a craft of some ice cold lemonade on top of that barrel. This lemonade is very urine-colored, don't you think? Eh, I'm sure it's not what you think. It's been made from fresh and ripe lemons. Yeah, maybe just don't think about it. In case he man's overly revealing undies aren't enough to remind you of the slightly overemphasized genitals of classic 80s cartoons, hopefully this urine-colored lemonade will remind you of Euro-Gendel anomalies that can also be present. Well, let's fill up he man's very kidney-shaped satchel with a drink to go and be on our way. Recall that when we include a kidney satchel like this one, it's to remind you of renal involvement. And in this case, patients can develop renal anomalies such as hypoplastic single or pelvic kidney. Now, as we begin our tour, I'd like to point your attention to our little Lombard Yard mascot, the rubber duck. This mighty duck sits atop our log stacks and is a good luck charm for all who enter the Lombard Yard. This little rubber duckie is to remind you of the fatty-lide pomas that can develop in patients with this syndrome. Patients with Lombard syndrome are also prone to skin tags or acro-cordons if you're feeling fancy. So, we've placed our cute little recurring tree with the funky yellow, pedunculated fruit grown in the Lombard Yard. Now, at a Lombard Yard, there's always potential fire hazards, and we always have to be ready for it. Fortunately, we have red water hoses scattered in all areas, just in case we ever need them. Oh no, the one at the base of that wood stack appears to be torturous and backed up, causing a problem with its fluid flow at the moment. This is to remind you of the arterial anomalies that can be present. As we continue our tour, you can see that there are logs of wood as far as the eye can see. Oh, oh no, no, Johnny, be careful. Don't sit down right there. I don't think he sees that nail poking out of that stool. Wait! Oh, that must have hurt. Johnny sitting on that horribly placed nail is to remind you that anorectal anomalies are something you always have to watch out for, and can range from an imperferent anus to fistulas. The final, interesting, and necessary things to have at our Lombard Yard is our propane tank. It helps replenish fuel in our equipment, and likewise, we'll remind you of the treatment we use for Lombosecaryl syndrome. Treatment, with propranolol, should be considered especially for large, ulcerated, or complicated segmental homangiomas. Well guys, it has been an exciting day having you at the Lombard Yard, but let's bundle this sketch up with a quick review. Lombosecaryl syndrome presents with segmental homangiomas of the lower back, buttocks, or genitalia. Just remember the title of the sketch, and that he-man is the guide. Patients can also present with mylopethes, such as mylomoninja cells, as shown by the crane with a spinal cord like cable and vertebral scaffolding. Tony deformities can lead to leg length discrepancy, shown by the stool with a single short leg. Eurogenital anomalies are often present. Renal anomalies like hypoplastic, single, or pelvic kidney are an important association, and you should refer your patients for screening. Patients can present with non-cancerous growths like lipomas and acrochordons, so remember the rubber duck and the yellow fruit tree. Constantinosis and dysplasia can lead to back up of blood flow, just like the hose being backed up and anorectal anomalies are associated, such as in perforat anus and fischulas. So recall Johnny sitting on the nail. Propryanolol is the recommended treatment for Lombosecaryl syndrome when patients present with large, ulcerated, or complicated segmental homangiomas, and is shown by the propantank. Alright, come see us again sometime.
