TRANSCRIPT: Muir-Torre Syndrome
============================================================

Hello and welcome back. In today's sketch, we're covering Mirtoré Syndrome at the Mirtoré High School Soccer tournament. These young players have won GOOL, and that is to stop their rival high school team. Now let's kick this off and get the ball rolling, and yes, the puns are intended. Mirtoré Syndrome is an autosomal dominant genome dermatosis that is considered to be a subtype of Lynch syndrome, also known as hereditary non-polliposis colorectal carcinoma syndrome, or HNPCC for short. Before the big game, you know you gotta get the ball rolling with some fuel, and these players, while they're in for a treat. Check out this table by the field that says lunch, or does that say Lynch? Yeah, there's either a typo or I did one too many headers back in the day. Hmm, looks like they have some fresh, hot dominoes pizza. This misspelled lunch sign is to remind you of Lynch syndrome, which is associated with colorectal cancer at an early age of onset. We'll cover this in more detail later in the sketch, and the tasty dominoes pizza, with the dominant domino symbol, is to remind you that Mirtoré is transmitted via autosomal dominant inheritance. Oh look, our first player is getting in some practice shots before the big game. But, uh, I hope he plans on changing into a more flattering uniform, because this whole outfit, it's completely mismatched. Well, at least he's wearing his number two swan jersey. Oh, I see. This is all part of the larger intimidation tactic to confuse the other team. Why else would he wear a number one foam finger to play soccer? This player, with his mismatched outfit and two swan team logo, and wearing a number one foam finger, is to remind you that the underlying defect is in mismatched repair genes, with the most common mutation being in MSH2, which account for about 90% of cases. However, there are other less common genes that are still fair game for tests, including MLH1 and MSH6. To remind you of MLH1 and MSH6, take a look at his soccer bag. Clearly this kid plays on more than just one soccer team. He brought his duffel bag with a one sword on it to carry his six golf club. Ah rats, for your fanatics at home who were planning on watching the game on Zoom. Uh, well, it looks like the game isn't going to be live anymore, because this gaffer totally broke the satellite, this will pick up the big game tonight. This player wearing his mismatched uniform and kicking the ball and breaking the satellite should serve to reinforce that Murator Ray syndrome is caused by heterozygous germline mutations in one of several DNA mismatched repair genes with the end result of micro satellite instability. Now, let's cover our clinical features of Murator Ray syndrome. It's important to know that Murator Ray syndrome commonly presents with multiple sebaceous neoplasms, such as sebaceous adenomas, which are not to be confused with the adenoma sebaceum of tuberous disclerosis. sebaceomas and sebaceous carcinomas. To remind you of sebaceous neoplasms, we'll add this equipment bag full of yellow soccer balls on the field that's meant to resemble a sebaceous gland. In general, these tumors tend to favor the head and neck region, and sebaceous carcinomas in particular tend to occur in the peri-ocular area. To remind you of this, we've placed a yellow soccer ball with our recurring cancer crab on it to remind you of carcinoma, and our recurring ocular sunglasses to remind you that these typically occur around the eyes. You should know that in clinical practice, if you biopsy a sebaceous neoplasm, especially a sebaceous carcinoma, anywhere other than the head and neck, you should consider screening for Murator Ray, because it's very rare for normal individuals to develop these anywhere other than the head and neck. Before we move on to cover additional clinical features, it's important to know for boards that Murator Ray syndrome is a part of the facial papules differential diagnosis. So, let's bring back some hooks from our other sketches in a bonus, dermatomonic mini-scene on the right. Well, if it isn't our most manly man, just admire that super sick beard. Wait a minute, I thought this was a high school tournament. Oh, right, yeah. I guess he's one of those guys that gets held back a few years, maybe five or ten. So, you can be a star player of the soccer team. Anyway, this guy may look familiar to you if you've already tuned into our sketches on dermatomonics. This is the modern man for men syndrome type one. He's also got some papules on his face to remind you that men type one commonly presents with facial papules. Also, I totally forgot to mention that Murator Ray high school is out in the middle of nowhere in a rural town. It's kinda like Raghru up, so the soccer field was built out in the boonies. Just look at these cows and wild hogs grazing by the brook in the background. This is to remind you that cow dents, syndrome, and bird hog duvet also are part of this facial papule differential, as well as brook-speagler syndrome as shown by the brook. Aww, they've also planted some beautiful roses and some not-so-tubular tuberous sclerosis inner tubes along the fence. Now this is to remind you that tuberous sclerosis is a part of this differential as well, and all of these genodermatosis should be considered in a patient presenting with non-specific facial papules. Anyways, let's get back to the clinical features of Murator Ray syndrome. Looks like the players are going to hit some heavy drills before the game. Check out these cones decorated in the rival team's cancer crab mascot. These cones serve as a hook to remind you of carado acantomas, or, as I like to say, carado acontoma, which is a low-grade skin cancer that commonly presents as crateriform or cone-shaped lesions filled with keratin debris. Multiple carado acantomas, particularly with sebaceous differentiation, often occur in the patients with Murator Ray syndrome. Oh man, it looks like it's about game time because the rival team's crab mascot has shown up. Okay, that's not nice, but it is hilarious. It looks like some of our Murator Ray students are total pranksters, and they broke this colon-looking pipe that's oozing muddy crab. Yeah, like crap. Water all over where he's standing. Oh, M.G., it gets better. Looks like they swapped out his regular outfit for these super embarrassing bikini bottoms. Oh, crap, that's got to hurt. One of the players totally headed the ball right into his crotch. This is to remind you that Murator Ray syndrome is associated with multiple malignancies. In particular, colorectal carcinoma, which is the most common malignancy in these patients, and it typically develops before the age of 50, and it involves the proximal colon. Hence, the colon-looking busted pipes spoo in muddy poo water. The second most common malignancy associated with Murator Ray are genito urinary carcinomas, and if you recall from the sketch covering cowdins, the bikini bottoms serve as a hook to represent endometrial carcinoma. Lastly, the mascot getting kicked in the crotch serves as a hook for GU cancers in general, including endometrial, ovarian, and organs of the urinary tract. Wow, the game hasn't even started, and the players have already totally rated the refreshments table. Look at all these lines just scattered all over the place. These lines are our recurring hook for lymphoma, which is also seen at an increased rate in patients with Murator Ray syndrome. It's important to remember that the diagnosis of Murator Ray syndrome is based on the presence of at least one sebaceous tumor, or KA with sebaceous differentiation, and a visceral malignancy in the absence of any predisposing factors. And since there are no treatment options for the underlying cause of Murator Ray syndrome, it is important to understand the recommendations for tumor surveillance for these patients. Uh, what's this magnifying glass doing sitting next to the muddy poo water busted colon pipe? Now, is this a failed plan for some kind of prank to set a turd on fire? That's gross, guys. Also, it's pretty ingenious. Anyways, this magnifying glass should serve to remind you that patients with Murator Ray need regular follow-up with their primary care provider for screening and monitoring for visceral malignancy. More specifically, they need more frequent colonoscopies, hence why we've placed the magnifying glass in the poo water. While we felt it would be too much to include in detail in this sketch, it is important to know that patients with Murator Ray syndrome should start getting screened in colonoscopies starting at age 20 to 25 every one to two years, given the high rate of colorectal carcinomas in these patients. Furthermore, patients should also get yearly UAs with cytological examination yearly, starting at age 25 to 30 to screen for GU cancers. Additionally, female patients should get yearly pelvic exams with transvaginal ultrasounds. To remind you of your analysis, we've placed these lemonade bottles on the refreshments table with one that's been knocked over and meant to resemble urine. And if lemonade doesn't make you think of urine, you really should go see a doctor. Now, before the Murator Ray players take their rivals head on and things get messy. Let's quickly sum up this sketch. Murator Ray syndrome is an autosomal dominant genodermatosis that is considered to be a subtype of Lynch syndrome, also known as hereditary non-poliposis colorectal carcinoma syndrome, or HNPCC for short. This misspelled lunch sign is to remind you of Lynch syndrome, which is associated with colorectal cancer at an early age of onset, and the tasty Domino's pizza with the Domino logo on the table is to remind you that Murator Ray is autosomal dominant. The kid wearing his mismatched uniform and the broken satellite is to remind you that Murator Ray syndrome is caused by heterozygous germline mutations in several DNA mismatched repair genes, causing micro-satellite instability. If you only have the broadband to remember one, try to remember that the most common mutation is in MSH2, which is why we've depicted our player with the number two swan on his jersey, and wearing a number one foam finger for the number one cause. However, other mutations can also cause Murator Ray and our fair game on the boards. These are shown next to him with his bag and a number one sword on it, and a six golf club sticking out. These are to remind you of MLH1 and MSH6. These can be tested for by genetics or on a tissue sample with immunohistochemical staining. The important clinical features to remember about Murator Ray syndrome are that many patients present with sebaceous neoplasms. These are depicted by the equipment ball bag full of yellow soccer balls resembling a sebaceous gland. The yellow soccer ball with the cancer crab and ocular sunglasses are to remind you of sebaceous carcinomas, which most commonly occur in a peri-ocular distribution, but in patients with Murator Ray, they can occur anywhere, which may be the first clinical finding that leads to the diagnosis. These sebaceous neoplasms on the face mean that Murator Ray is on the facial, papillal, differential, and we've included some bonus dermatotics in the right back corner of the sketch in order to remind you of this. These include men type one, which is shown with the modern man, cowden syndrome and birch hog dube, which we showed with the cow and hog grazing nearby the rural soccer field, a brick of water for brook speed glor, and the roses planted in inner tubes along the fence for tuberous sclerosis. One of the most testable clinical features in dermatology to be aware of in Murator Ray is the presence of multiple carato acanthomas, particularly with sebaceous differentiation, as shown by our multiple carato acone thoma cones with cancer crabs lined up for drills. Furthermore, the hooks centered around our rival team crab mascot are to remind you of the various visceral malignancies associated with Murator Ray syndrome. The most common is colorectal cancer, which is shown with the busted colon pipes spooing muddy poo water. The second most common are the gennido urinary malignancies, which are shown as a group by the mascot wearing the bikini bottoms and taking a hard-headed ball to the crotch. Recall that this includes endometrial ovarian and urinary tract malignancies. Lastly, the limes scattered on the refreshment table are to remind you of an association with lymphoma. Even as a dermatologist, it's important to know the surveillance guidelines for these patients, given the catastrophic impact that misinomalignancy can have, and the high risk of developing one or more in patients with Murator Ray syndrome. The failed prank of setting the turd on fire with a magnifying glass is to remind you that these patients need regular cancer screen, especially colonoscopies, and they'll need them every one to two years starting at age 20 to 25. Meanwhile, the lemonade stand with a cup of urine-colored lemonade is to remind you of yearly UAs with cytology to screen for GU cancers. Well, I really got a kick out of that sketch. Alright, alright, that's the last soccer pun I promise. I'll see you next time.
