TRANSCRIPT: Neonatal Rashes
============================================================

Shhh, I think they're sleeping. Just a little bit. So cute and godly. And yet, terrifying. That's right. Today, we're going to be talking about babies. In this sketch, titled The Right Choice Nursery, we'll be covering the neonatal rashes, transient neonatal postular melanosis, erythema toxicum neonotorum, and milyaria crystallina. These rashes are all fairly common, and if you're not familiar with them, they can be really confusing. That being said, just pay attention to a few minor details. Most importantly, pay attention to the timing, type of primary lesion, and distribution, because these three features will allow you to distinguish each rash clinically in the majority of cases. Note that in this sketch, we've depicted the rashes from left to right in order of presentation and each in their own view and window. Alright, let's get started by introducing our first baby, Melan, who's depicted as a Fitzpatrick type IV baby in the first crib. We've chosen to name him Melan to remind you of transient neonatal postular melanosis, which is a rash that often begins at, or very shortly after birth, in full term, black or Hispanic babies. Hence why Melan is depicted as a black baby. You know, I think this crib suits him quite well, because Melan sounds like a name for royalty, and this mobile's arm happens to be a zero crown. In all of the sections, the arm of the mobile will correspond to the timing of the rash in days. So naturally, this implies that in the case of TNPM, the rash is often present at birth. Typically there are three stages of the rash that occur in order, postules without underlying erythema, which rupture to give way to colorettes of scale, then over time become pigmented macules. We've shown these three features with the crib and decor around Melan. This is that a swaddle is decorated with white, postul-like polka dots, and the crib is decorated with these little white, postul-like bubbles to remind you of the postular stage. Then we'll add some scale-like frills around the edge of the crib to remind you of the colorette of scale. And lastly, let's add a chocolate rug under the crib to represent the hyperpigmented macules, which are the final stage. Most commonly, the lesions occur on the forehead and ears, but are also frequently seen on the back, fingers, and toes. So recall that Melan's head and feet are the only areas exposed to remind you that these are the most common locations. Because TNPM is not life-threatening and is self-limited, that's about all you need to know clinically. But test writers often like to ask questions like, what would be expected on histology. So you should know that postules are collections of neutrophils, which means that this is one of the disorders on the differential diagnosis for sub-cornial postules. And to help you remember this, how about adding some cute little neutrophil ants on the mobile and some artwork on the back wall. Notice how this mural on the back wall depicts a sunset, where the sun looks a little like a postule and the wispy pink clouds look like the flakes of a stratum corneum. We'll use this imagery anytime we want you to think of this differential, but as an added bonus, here's a cool cat and join the rays while sipping on a drink. We've added this cat sipping because a popular pneumonic for sub-cornial postules is cat tips, which stands for Candida, Acropustulosis of Infancy, Transient Neonatal Pustular Melanosus, Sned and Wilkinson, Empatigo, Pustular Saraiasus, and Staff-Skolded Skin Syndrome. Alright, let's move on to the next section where Tore is sleeping peacefully. We chose Tore to remind you of Toxicum for Eritema, Toxicum Neonotorium, which like the name implies often looks scary, but it's actually benign. ETN is typically seen in big babies born full-term and the weight you should commit to memory is 2.5kg because it's infants over this weight who are at risk for developing ETN. So notice that we've included Tore's weight on her nameplate and she weighs exactly 2.5kg. Oh, sidebar, 2.5kg, yeah, it's not that big. This is actually about average weight for a full-term infant, but for the test if a baby is under this weight, they're probably trying to steer you away from ETN. In case the name isn't enough to recall that this section is dedicated to Eritema Toxicum Neonotorium, we've added the extra hook of this Toxic diaper bin. Now I bet Toxic looks about normal for any of you that already have kids, doesn't? Because seriously, oh my gosh. Alright, back to it. Remember that the mobile arm in all sections corresponds to onset and in ETN, the initial presentation is generally within the first two days, as shown by the two swan used in the mobile arm. Technically, this rash begins as aerothematous macules, papules, and postules and it can occur well, just about anywhere on the body, but it will almost never occur on the palms or soles. So, let's add a do not touch sign with a picture of a palm on it to remind you of this. Because the most notable find in this Eritema, note that Tore is swaddled in a pink blanket to remind you of Eritema, and we've added cream-colored postul like bubbles to her crib. However, in some instances, wheels and Eritema may be the predominant finding without many postules. So let's add a rug under her crib, but this time it's red to remind you of aerothematous wheels. This rash is often self-limited and generally you'll be able to make the diagnosis clinically. But the boards do like to ask tertiary questions regarding the histology. So maybe those of you who are dermatomonic regulars notice that there are some conspicious eocinophil red berries dangling from the mobile. Good job! That's because the predominant cell type seen in the postules of these patients are eocinophils. This also means that if you were to do a right stain on the slide, you would be able to identify them. To help you remember right stain, just shift your focus to the back wall where we've included the name of the nursery, the right choice. Last, let's talk about Meliaria crystallina, which is shown on the right with Millie. Meliaria crystallina is simply due to sweat in and addition to occlusion of the sweat ducts and can be seen in any population. But because neonatal skin isn't completely developed, they're at a higher risk. Typically, these lesions develop at about 7 days of age and will show this by adding the 7 boomerang to hermobile arm. It generally occurs on the upper extremities and head and that's why we've shown Millie as having wiggled a little arm free to wave at her neighbors. Hey Millie! The most notable risk factor is overheating or sweating. So notice that Millie doesn't just have a swaddle, but she's also covered up in a blanket. Oh, and FYI, you should NOT be putting a blanket over babies while they sleep, because they have trouble regulating temperature and there's the risk of sids. But let's get back to dermatology. Another common reason for overheating in a neonate is fever, and this can be due to a number of things but a common cause is viral illness. For our purposes though, we've added these wavy red fever lines coming off of Millie to make you think of a fever. Technically, the history of fever or aggressive swaddling will likely lead you to the right diagnosis once you've seen the classic pinpoint clear vesicles which can appear like little crystals. Hence the name, Milliaria, crystallina. Oh, that's a cute little spiral toy. Personally, it reminds me of the playful spiraling of an Echron duct. And that's because that's the reason we put it there. If you were so inclined to biopsy one of these lesions, you would expect to see Echron duct blockage. And because I like symmetry, we'll add some little sweat drop decorations to Millie's mobile to balance things out. Note that the occlusion of sweat ducts is a feature that applies to all forms of millia, including rubra and profunda, but the depth of blockage is what differentiates these disorders. In the case of Milliaria, crystallina, the blockage is very superficial, occurring at the level of stratum corneum. Additionally, you might also see sponge germ. So we painted a cool sponge bob looking character on the wall behind Millie. Now, let's wrap this sketch up in a good tight swaddle so we can put it to bed. This sketch covers the neonatal rashes transient neonatal pustular melanosis, erythema toxicum neonatorum, and milliaria crystallina. They have clinical features that can help distinguish one another clinically, but timing is key. So we've shown them an order of onset from left to right, with the hooks on their mobile arms corresponding to the general onset of days. On the left is TNPM, as shown by Mellon, which generally begins at birth or very shortly after, hence the zero crown on the mobile arm. It begins as small pustules on the face and or acrocytes, which give way to a macule with a cholera of scale, then resolve with hyperpigmented macules. This is shown by the polka dots on his swaddle, the bubbles on the crib, the frills around the periphery of the crib, and the hyperpigmented rug, respectively. Recall that his face and feet are shown, because these are common locations for the lesions. The painting on the back wall depicts a sunset with pink wispy clouds and a cat sip in a drink, because on histology, these lesions are on the sub-cornial, pustule differential. The sun is meant to look like a small pustule, with the overlying pink clouds representing the stratum corneum. A common numonic for this differential is cat sips, hence the cat sipin. And that stands for Candida, Acropustulosis of Infancy, TNPM, SNED and Wilkinson, Impetigo, Pustular Sarisis, and Staff Scalded Skin. Also, recall that on histology, the pustule is full of neutrophils, so we've added some neutrophil ants and mobile decorations. The baby Tory in the center depicts Irothema, Toxicum, Neonatorm, which is typically seen in full-term big babies, which is why we've added Tory's weight to the nameplate at 2.5KG. Even though 2.5KG is the typical weight for a baby, and not really big, it's the number that you need to know for the boards. As an added bonus, we added a toxic diaper bin to reinforce that this section is for Irothema Toxicum Neonatorm. Clinically, this rash is defined by Irothema and onset at about 2 days, and we've shown this with the red swaddle and the two swan. Pustules are common, so we've added some more pustule like bubbles to the crib, but in some instances, you may only see Irothema and wheels. To recall the red rug under the crib, important points to know for the tests are that Iosinophils are the predominant inflammatory cell on histology, and that these can be highlighted with a right stain. So, you can remember that Iosinophil red berries hanging from the mobile and the name of the nursery on the wall, the right choice. Note that ETN can occur anywhere, but it typically spares the palms and soles, so don't forget the do not touch sign. Lastly, we covered Milliaria, Kristalina, with Million the right hand side. This rash generally presents around 7 days of age as pinpoint vesicles in a baby that's been too hot. So recall that the 7 boomerang is to remind you of 7 days, and Milliaria swaddled and has a blanket with these wavy red fever lines. She has an arm wiggled free to remind you that the most common locations are the upper extremities and head. On histology, though you probably won't need to biopsy this, you would expect to see Ekron duct blockage at the level of the stratum corneum, and this is shown by the Ekron coil-like toy wrapped around the mobile arm with little block toys coming off of it. Additionally, you may notice some sponge derm, so remember the sponge bob looking character on the back wall. Well, alright, that's about it folks, now I'm gonna get out of here before I catch baby fever. I'll catch you next time.
