TRANSCRIPT: NFJ and DPR
============================================================

Alright, you guys all made it? Good, good. Yeah, so I don't normally take people with me on these adventures because they die. But you guys made me upfront, so I'm thinking I can try it again. So what we're gonna do is we're gonna adventure through this Egyptian tomb and learn about the ancient secrets that were lost at time. But we'll also be discussing the disorders, Nageli, Franchetti, Jettison syndrome, and Dermato Pathy of Pigmentosa, reticularis, which are rare autosomal ectodermal dysplasia that manifests with the shared feature of dyschromia. Notably, they're almost identical, but there are a few subtle differences to learn. So let's have a chinwag and get this sketch started. First, I'll introduce Nigel, who will be our central hook for Nageli, Franchetti, Jettison syndrome. Both of these disorders are due to autosomal dominant mutations in keratin 14, and it makes sense that Nigel would be wheeled in a number one sword, in case he has a fight off potential mummies. Fortunately, it looks like this is more of a tourist tomb by the way that they've marked out the area that has permitted to walk with a four flag. You can use the one sword and four flag to recall that the defect is in keratin 14. Additionally, let's add some autosomal dominant domino hieroglyphics to the wall so that you'll remember that it's autosomal dominant mutations. As we stated earlier, both NFJ and DPR are dyschromias, meaning that a key feature is the presence of both hyper and hypopigmented areas. In the case of NFJ, the classic lesions are described as brown-gray reticulated hyperpigmentation, which commonly localizes to the abdomen. To represent this, we'll give Nigel a gray fanny pack around his abdomen. Now for the test, it's more useful to be able to recognize the secondary characteristics, and among these, dental anomalies, such as the early loss of teeth, are the most useful because they're not seen in DPR. So if any of you guys remember the old Nickelodeon show you already know, Nigel? Hmm, yeah, it's a pretty bad teeth. And who are we to change history? In fact, since getting a show canceled, I don't think the years have been too kind to them. Kinda looks like teeth got even worse. The last notable distinct feature of NFJ is that the dyschromia tends to improve with age, just like how this tomb has improvements coming. Recall that even though we learn these conditions in the context of dyschromias, there's still ectodermal dysplasia. So expect to see abnormalities in other ectodermal structures like the teeth, nails, and acrion glands. Some features that are seen in both DPN and NFJ are variable PPK, hypohydrosis, and on a cadastrophe. Man, oh man, they need to crank up the humidity in here a bit. You can see how dry it is just by looking at these cracks in the ground. Yeah, they're not supposed to be there. These cracks in the ground are a reminder for hypohydrosis, and we're called that if the acrion glands are gone, the dermatoglyphs will be too. So just like our video covering hypohydrodic ectodermal dysplasia, we've brought back the dermatoglyph hieroglyphs, but they're still working on restoring this section here on the right, which is covered by a tie-dye-esque sheet. This should remind you of absent or distorted dermatoglyphs, as well as poicular derma, which just means discoloration of the skin with both hyper and hypopigmented areas. Now you know what this sketch is missing? A mummy, and I can add one. Right about here. There we go. This mummy in the sarcophagus, he sure looks like he died in horror. By looking at those nail marks with fingernails sticking out, it seems that he wasn't quite ready to be buried. That is gruesome. This is all to remind you that they may have on a colisus. Lastly, we'll add some scattered rubble debris to the ground to remind you of PPK. Now despite having a fascination with Egyptian history, I tend to be wary of cramps based with the dead people in him, and I suppose in that regard, I have more in common with this other tomb going around the right, who is looking a little wary of the riding on the wall. This adventure standing next to this path sign is where we'll show the unique features of dermatopathia pigmentosa reticularis, which is also due to autosomal dominant mutations in carrots and 14, and is again shown with the adventure of wearing a number one sword and standing next to a four-flag de-marketing the walking path. Like NFJ, DPR has reticulated hyperpigmentation of the torso, but it classically involves the upper torso and proximal extremities, roughly in the same distribution as this reticulated net that he's chosen to wear like a cape. Hot tip for you guys, you can't kill a mummy, but you might be able to slow it down enough to get away. Furthermore, and most notable for the tests, DPR has diffused nonscarring alopecia, hence why we've depicted this adventure as being bald. That's about all you need to know for these disorders, but let's wrap this up like a mummy and review the hooks. This sketch, titled Nigel's Adventure, covers the ectodermal dysplasia with discromatosis, known as Nagelli-Frenchetti-Jetison syndrome, and dermatopathia pigmentosa reticularis. Both disorders are due to autosomal dominant mutations in keratin 14, as shown by the autosomal dominant domino hieroglyphics and the one sword and four flags with each character. Note that because they're elelic, the majority of features will be shared, and the unique findings are shown on the respective character while the shared features are spread throughout the sketch. NFJ is shown by Nigel on the left, and is most notable for dental anomalies and reticulate brown-gray pigmentation around the abdomen. These features are shown by his jacked up teeth and the gray fanny pack around his abdomen. Remember that the sign which reads improvements come in soon is to remind you that in NFJ, the dispigmentation improves after puberty. DPR is shown by our cautious adventure on the right, and is most notable for the reticulate pigmentation of the trunk and proximal extremities with non-scarine alopecia. These features are shown by his mummy trapping net, they's wearing like a cape, and the fact, they's bald. The shared features include PPK, absentee hematoglyphs, and onyca dystrophy, which are shown by the rubble PPK debris scattered over the ground, the mummy sarcophagus with scratch marks and the nail sticking out is for onyca lysis, and the higher glyphics being covered up should remind you of absentee hematoglyphs. Well, that's a wrap. Hey, and thanks for the support, guys, and don't forget to send us a request so that we can make the lessons that you actually want to learn. I'll catch you next time.
