TRANSCRIPT: Normal Skin Histologic Differential (DDx)
============================================================

Hey, feel untired. Like you need to take a break. Well head on down to Norm's dock and wet a line. It's nothing fancy, just a place for normal people to kick back and relax while learning about the different diagnoses on the differential for normal skin. Alright, I hope you guys are ready for a good one today. Now while I suppose the test writers could give you a biopsy of normal skin, it's unlikely. So if you see a biopsy that looks like normal skin, the diagnoses covered in this sketch are some of the things that you should look for. That being said, different sources will have different diagnoses listed, and our list isn't all inclusive. Just memorizing a list isn't the best way to find these hidden gems. Instead, we want you to use this list as a backbone to guide you into looking for specific things such as superficial infections, depositional disorders, subtle infiltrates, etc. Now let's head on down to Norm's dock and make a splash. The first thing you'll notice as you approach this beautiful dock is Norm's bait store, with a cool fisherman's crest as a sign. This crest with our recurrent scleroderma shield is to remind you of scleroderma which generally appears as a square punch with very bland, dense collagen which can look just like normal back skin. Go on, head on in and get yourself some bait. I would recommend the ringer. Trust me, that little worm will keep you ripping lips all day long. We chose a worm, made it shaped like a ring, and called it the ringer to remind you of ringworm aka tinia. On histology you might not notice anything abnormal, but if you look carefully in the stratum corneum, you might get lucky and catch some hyphae. However, if you're like me, hyphae are in the eye of the beholder, and I'm never quite confident in identifying them. In that case, you could use a PAS stain to highlight the fungal elements. To remind you of PAS, just recall this jar of paste that you can use to step your game up. Sure, it might smell like death, but fishermen will do anything if it means catching the one that got away. Now after you get done reeling in a hunker, take a break and grab some grub. Today's special is spaghetti and meatballs. You might recall that spaghetti and meatballs is a buzzword for the appearance of pitoriasis VersaColor, due to the presence of both yeast and hyphae. P VersaColor will also stain positively with PAS, hence why the ad is in line with the ringer and the paste ads. Alright, so we got our tackle and a full belly, so let's cast off and catch some fish. Oh, speaking of fish, it looks like it's going to be a good day, because this guy is already reeling in a nice one. Remember that egg theosis is derived from the Greek word for fish, and we've used various fish-related themes for egg theoses in other sketches. So it should come as no surprise that this fish represents egg theosis. Really just about any subtype, so we're not going to get specific here. Huh, you think we should ask him what he caught that fish on? Huh, he's just using a standard silver spoon. Now in case you're not a fisherman, the silver spoon is a must-have in any tackle box, and yeah, it's a real lure. Apart from being a classic lure, we chose the silver spoon to remind you of a geria, or silver toxicity, which is incredibly discreet and easy to miss if you don't think to look for it. Specifically, you need to look around the Echron coils for deposition of granular black pigment. Try to use the curly spiraled eyelets on the man's fishing rod as a reminder to check the Echron coils. I mean, this guy should be wearing a wide brimmed hat, but at least he remembered his sun gloves and neckgator, and I got admit, man, I'm jealous. Check out those sweet, trout-esque white polka dot patterns. Use these white polka dots to recall Vidaligo. Oh, my. And just when I thought he was a pro, too, he sat in spaghetti and got red sauce all over his butt and groin area. Now when I think of red in the groin, I think of intertrigo. Specifically, I want you to think of Candida or Erythrasma. All that Erythrasma is due to cariny bacterial infection in the stratum corneum and often involves the perianal region. Histologically, you have to look really closely, and you might see some filamentous bacteria growing vertically in the stratum corneum. Now if your fish and at norms, you should probably know that there might be some alligators. But don't worry, they're friendly. Eeeesh. If you recall from our sketch covering men's syndromes, we use an alligator like this one to signify macular amyloid. Now, from low power, amyloid is often difficult to appreciate. But if you look in the papillary dermis, you might appreciate a homogenous pink substance with a shattered or cracked appearance, even on routine H&E. You could also use a variety of stains for amyloids such as Congo red, crystal violet, thioflaventy, etc. But we're not covering those here. Oh, but comment below if you want us to do a sketch about them later. Note that a classic description, or at least one that I find appealing, of the amyloid and macular amyloid is pink or red donuts due to deposition around blood vessels. And just look at what this gator has his eyes set on. That float looks an awful lot like a yummy donut. To remember that it's around the blood vessels, we've included a red hose meant to resemble a blood vessel running across the dock and dripping into the water by the donut. It's worth noting that apart from just amyloid, other depositional disorders may also look like normal skin, but aren't shown in this sketch. On second thought, I may be more in the mindset of this man's wife. Just kick back, throw my feet up and read a good book. Say, doesn't she look familiar? Well she should, because this is the same woman from our mastocytosis sketch, and we've included her here to remind you of Urdicaria pigmentosa, or the even more elusive, Talandjectasia macularis eruptiva perstans. Recall that we used a purse like this woman's with the Talandjectasia-esque spiderweb design for perstans. While T-Mep might initially trick you into thinking it's normal, if you look closely, you'll generally see superficial Talandjectages, or maybe some sparse cyndal cells, but staining for mast cells will help significantly. For a more complete list of mast cells, check out our less on mastocytosis. But for now, we'll go ahead and include a little boat tied to a wooden mast-esque pole here named the Siegem. That's to remind you of the gem-sustained, but just remember that this isn't the best sustain, and is just a more general reminder to stain for mast cells. The last few disorders we'll cover will be in the foreground. We've included them in a slightly separate area because they're not classically on the normal skin differential, but they are still worth knowing. Oh, man, it's getting hot in here, huh? I could really go for something cool and refreshing, and luckily norms has us covered. Stop by their hydrocooler for some cool, refreshing melon. This hydrocooler should serve to remind you of corticosteroid atrophy, which looks normal on histology unless you compare it to the patient's non-atrophyed skin. Additionally, you should recall that any disorder defined by atrophy can resemble normal skin, things like atrofoderma, aneto-derma, or lipoatrophy. The melon slices are to remind you of hyperpigmentation, such as post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation, melasma, cafeole macules, etc. And lastly, we've included this adorable pet guinea pig munching on some foliage as a hook for pea-foliaceous. Now, personally, I think a pet dog would have been better. But, nah, guinea pigs are cute too, I guess. Clinically, pea-foliaceous would pretty much never look normal, but test riders, well, they're often cruel and unusual. So they'll give you a histo picture, and you'll have to be able to identify very subtle clues to arrive at a diagnosis. And for pempagus foliaceous, the findings can be incredibly subtle and blister and may simply resemble an artifact. Now as we wrap this sketch up and review the hooks, note that we've included hooks for a number of specific disorders that test riders like to go after, but you should try to use each disorder as a template for other diagnoses that share similar pathologies. For example, infections in the stratum corneum include tinia, pitoriasis, vercicolor, candidiasis, and erythrasma. So if you think of one, also think of the others. Alternatively, if you consider a depositional disorder like amyloid, also think about silver, gold, or mucin deposition. Okay, let's get on with it so we can go catch some fish. We're called that this is Norm's doc, and we're covering the derm path differential for normal skin. While we often say normal skin, a better term would be very, very subtly abnormal skin, because there's usually something you can find if you look closely or order the right stains. I like to lump things, so here we go. The shield crest on the bait shop should remind you of Morphea, which looks like a normal backskin, but not from the back. Infections in the stratum corneum include tinia, pitoriasis, vercicolor, erythrasma, and candidia, and are shown by the Ring or Worm for Ringworm, aka tinia corperus, p-vercicolor spaghetti and meatballs lunchad, and bright red sauce in the groin region of our fisherman meant to evoke imagery of intertragoc due to erythrasma or candidia. Recall that fungal elements sustain positive for PAS as shown by the paste add in the bait shop. Our fisherman pulling up a fish should remind you of ectthiosis, pretty much any of them, and the silver spoon lures that he's using should remind you of silver deposition aka agiria. Recall that you need to check around the ecrion coils for black pigment to identify agiria, hence why we've made the eyelets on the fish and rod spiraling like an ecrion coil. Other depositional disorders may also look like normal skin, and this includes macular amyloidosis as shown by the alligator. The amyloid often deposits in the superficial papillary dermis around blood vessels and is described as a donut, hence the donut shaped float and the red vascular hose dripping in the water by the gator. Oh, speaking of gators, don't forget about the fisherman's cool neckgator and sun gloves with the white polka dots to remind you of videligo. Now if you're not into slimy fish, just kick back like this guy's boy. Remember that this is the same woman from our mastocytosis sketch, and should remind you of ecria pigmentosa or the even more elusive t-map. The wooden mast that the sea gem is tied to are bonus hooks to remind you that staining for mast cells is often helpful, and one of the stains that you could use is a gemsa. The hydrocooler should remind you of atrophy due to corticosteroids, but also think about other disorders that can cause dermal atrophy, such as atrofiderma or anidoderma and lipoatrophy, which would only be visualized if the sub-Q is present on the biopsy. The watermelon that you eat to cool off should remind you of post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation, but also other pigmentary disorders such as melasma or cafeole macules. And lastly, we brought back the guinea pig eating foliage from our penthagous sketch to remind you that penthagous foliacias may have very subtle findings and you should keep it at the back of your mind. Well, that's all folks, I hope this has been a useful review and keep those suggestions
