TRANSCRIPT: Oculocutaneous Albinism (OCA)
============================================================

Hello, and welcome to the Ocean Cares Association Sea Animal Rehabilitation Center. Not only will we be saving the sea turtles today, we will also be learning about the four types of ocular cutaneous albinism. Oculocutaneous albinism consists of a group of autosomal recessive disorders characterized by diffuse pigment delusion due to partial or total loss of melanin pigment within the melanocytes of the skin, hair follicles, and eyes. There are four types of ocat that you need to know for the boards, and to help you recall these, we've arranged this sketch into four sections each corresponded into a wooden post. With one being the first post on the left, and four is the last post on the right. Now that we've explained all that, let's get started. Wow, now that is a big boat, and it's got a huge number one sword on it. Kinda looks like the boat from whale wars. I hope they're ready to defeat the next big whale in fleet, but I guess we'll never know because the show got canceled. No, I'm not still bitter. No, no. Anyways, this big boat with the number one sword on it is to represent OCA type 1, which has two subtypes, OCA type 1a and type 1b. Notice that the hooks will be centered around the first dock post, and let's start with type 1a first. Alright, look at this ego-friendly sign that reads no tires. Despite the sign, some jerk has their own tires into the animal conservatory. See, this is why I care about the animals and not the humans. Jerks. The no tires sign is to remind you that the Tyrosinase gene is completely absent in OCA type 1a. Recall that the abbreviation for this gene is TYR or tire. Tire is a key enzyme in the melanin synthesis pathway, and when deficient, melanocytes are unable to convert tyrosine to dopa, which is the first step in melanin synthesis. Ooh, so the captain has arrived, and he's ready to embark on the high seas to save the whales. Now, I hope that he brought his sunscreen, because this guy is whiter than a fresh paint job on our whale saving boat. Our captain's light yellow hair, pink eyes, and milky white skin are to represent the clinical phenotype of OCA type 1a. These patients have zero pigment because they have zero tyrosinase. Notably, even the Nevi in these patients are amelonotic and are pink on exam. Kind of like these jellyfish gathered around the dock post, which oddly resemble Nevi. You professional whale warriors probably know you can't go whale hunting without some binoculars, and as you can see, the OCA offers binoculars to all of the sailors. However, I'm thinking they need to invest in a new pair if they want to save any whales, because the lenses, well, they're looking a little messed up with their blue, gray, cock-eyed lenses. If you look closely, you can see these binoculars look like gray blue irides of babies born with OCA type 1a. These cock-eyed binoculars should remind you of ocularcutaneous albinism, but we specifically drawn them this way to remind you of the depigmentation of the iris, and that these patients often have niestagmas, strabismus, and lack of binocular vision. Ooooo, rookie mistake, the captain did not bring any sunscreen, which is a major no-no in the derm world. But at least these guys are umbrella hat and a sweet red sunglasses. The umbrella hat or photo protective clothing for you derm nerds is our recurrent hook for photosensitivity, and these patients are obviously extremely photosensitive. Because of this, these patients have an increased risk for squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, and melanoma, which is why we've placed our cancer crab chilling on the ship with the captain. The sweet sunglasses are our recurrent hook for ocular findings. We've discussed this above, but you should know that many of these patients are legally blind. Let's move on to briefly discuss OCA type 1b, which is caused by decrease but not completely absent tyrosinase. We will place the features of OCA type 1b a little bit to the right of the one dockpost. Aww. The Ocean Care's Association really does care. They want to make sure the temperature of the water is nice and comfy for our sea animals, and they want to monitor the changes of global warming. This thermometer serves as a hook to remind you of the temperature-sensitive variant of OCA type 1b. In this phenotype, patients are born with white skin, hair, and light eyes. However, during puberty, scalp, and auxiliary hairs remain white, but hair on the extremities may become pigmented due to tyrosinase functioning at cooler temperatures. This is because the extremities are in a cooler and atomic location in contrast to the trunk and inter-trijana sites. The Ocean Care's Association, while they're out to say the world, not only do they care for precious sea animals, they're also super into recycling by the looks of this super vintage recycling sign. I will say that, looks a little faded on the bottom. This recycling sign is to represent that OCA type 1b patients have little to no pigment at birth, hence the faded part of the sign. But they will develop some pigmentation of hair and skin during the first and second decades of life, represented by the non-faded top portion. Another feature of OCA type 1b that differs from 1a is that Nevi can be pigmented, so we've thrown our brown Nevi look and jellyfish in to remind you. Now, let's move on to discuss OCA type 2, which will be displayed on the second dock post with a pelican sitting on it. Alright fine, you're going to have to forgive us for this one. Normally we use a duck or a swan for number 2, but I promise we're breaking the rule for good reason. Alright, hang in there. This two pelicans should serve to remind you of OCA type 2, which is the most common type of OCA, and is Tyrosan X positive. It's also important to remember that OCA type 2 is caused by mutation in the P gene, which stands for pink eye dilution, and notice that we've made his beak resemble the letter P. See? That's why I broke the rules, good reason. Anyway, this gene is located on chromosome 15, and we'll show this with our recurrent one sword and five maraca underwater near the second dock post. Heh, if it isn't a blast from the past, saddest movie ever. Now, there's no way we could do a sketch about sea animals without putting in free willy, and he's got his angelfish friend swimming underneath him. The free willy orca with his willy collar and angelfish friend are to remind you that OCA type 2 like hypopigmentation is seen in 1% of patients with Praeter willy syndrome and Angelman syndrome as shown by the angelfish. Recall that Praeter willy syndrome is caused by a paternal deletion on chromosome 15Q, and it manifests with hyperphasia, obesity, intellectual disability, and hypogonatism, while Angelman syndrome is caused by a deletion of the maternal portion of the same gene, and it manifests with microcephaly, intellectual disability, inappropriate laughter, and ataxic movements. The coolest part of the Ocean Cares Association is this located all over the world, even all the way in Africa. I can't think of a better place for all this exotic wildlife. You can even see the African flag waving in the background behind our pelican. This African flag is to remind you that OCA type 2 is usually seen in people of African descent. The clinical spectrum of OCA type 2 is broad, ranging from minimal to moderate pigmentary dilution of the hair, skin, and iris, with little to no abilities to tan. This light brown colored rope, which is meant to resemble a head of hair, is to remind you that some of these patients have light brown hair and skin. Now, let's move on to OCA type 3 and the third dock post. It's pretty obvious that the Ocean Cares Association loves the ocean, but you know what? Let's put it on sign to make it more official. All the way it could be more official if we made an Instagram post. The heart on the eye heart ocean sign is our recurrent hook for number 3 to represent OCA type 3. Whew, this conservatory has some rare exotic turtles. Look at this diamond back terrapin turtle, carrying this number 1 sword. This turp terrapin turtle with the sword is to remind you of TYRP1 or Turp1, which stands for tyrosine-related protein 1 and is mutated in OCA type 3. The Turp1 protein is a melanocyte-specific gene product involved in U melanin synthesis. Recall that U melanin is a brown black pigment, as opposed to fio melanin, which is more yellow orange. This is important because it accounts for the phenotype seen in type 3 OCA. Speaking of, look at that totally roofish shack behind a third dock post. Are people still saying roofish or do that die out in the 90s? Anyway, this red clay shack with the red brown colored roof should remind you of the roofish phenotype in OCA type 3, manifested by reddish, bronze skin, red hair, and blue or brown irides. Again, due to the predominance of fio melanin and lack of U melanin. This type is again common in patients of African descent, so we've also included our African flag on the shack as a reminder. Alright, now let's move on to the last type of OCA, which is OCA type 4. That's right, 4 comes after 3. We'll highlight this one with our fourth dock post. Not only does the Ocean Care's Association have a super cool whale wars boat, but they also have a red sailboat sporting a four flag to OCA type 4. The Ocean Care's Association must have some high paying sponsors to keep this thing going, and one of them must be sliced soda, because it's advertised on the side of the boat. It's obvious that Ocean Care's Association is all about the sea, sailing, and sliced soda. As you can see, the SL and sea in slice are highlighted to help you remember the SLC gene, because OCA type 4 is caused by mutations in SLC 45A2, which encodes solute carrier family 45 member 2. We've included two tiny hooks that Japanese guys hold in, a four flag, and a five maraca for SLC 45. But they're small, because it's probably not high yield, so feel free to forget this. Looks like this Japanese guy is ready to set sail with some sliced soda. He's weapon his Japanese heritage with a cool Japanese flag t-shirt. This is to remind you that OCA type 4 is more common in patients from Japan, where it accounts for 25% of OCA. These patients have a variable clinical presentation, ranging from white skin and hair to mild pigmentation of skin with yellow or brown hair. You can also see our 2P pelican on the sail. This is because the cutaneous manifestations are the same as type 2. Okay, let's quickly review this sketch cover in OCA types 1 through 4. Each wooden dock post will serve as a foci for the hooks corresponding to each respective type of OCA. OCA type 1 is due to tyrosinase mutations, resulting in either complete or total loss of tyrosinase. We'll show type 1 with the recurrent one sword on the ship, and recall deficiency in tyrosinase with the no-tire sign and tire. Type 1B has some tyrosinase activity, but is temperature dependent, so recall the thermostat in the water under the faded recycling sign. Clinical features include lack of pigment in the skin and eyes, including lack of pigment in Nevi. So recall our ghostly white sailor, blue lenses in the binoculars, and pink Nevi-like jellyfish. Because of the depleted pigment, these patients are incredibly photosensitive, and prone to basal cell carcinomas, squamous cell carcinomas, and melanomas. This is shown with our sailor's photosensitive umbrella hat and crab next to them. Ocular findings are common and include strabismus, niastagmas, and even blindness, so recall the coccyde binoculars and red sunglasses. OCA type 2, which is the most common type of OCA, is shown with our two pelican because it is due to amutation in the PGene, which stands for pink-eyed dilution. Recall that this gene is on chromosome 15, so we've placed our one sword and five maraca by free willy and the angelfish to remind you of this. Free willy and the angelfish are hooks to remind you of Prater willy and Angelman syndrome, which is also due to mutations on chromosome 15, and can present with OCA type 2 like hypopigmentation. It's also important to remember that OCA type 2 is more common in those of African descent, and they may develop some light brown pigment resulting in light brown hair or skin. These are shown by the African flag flying in the background and the light brown hair like rope on the dock. Type 3 is also known as Rufus type. It's shown with our recurring three heart in the form of an I love our ocean sign and is due to turp 1 mutations. Recall that the exotic terrapin turtle holding a one sword is the hook for turp 1. This form presents with light red brown skin and red hair due to the presence of fio melanin and absence of fio melanin, and it is again more common in the African nations. The features are shown by the Rufus shack in the back with its red roof and light brown clay walls. The African flag is again featured on the shack. Lastly, type 4 is shown on the right with the slice sailboat with the four flag as a sail. We chose slice soda because the mutation is in the SLC 45 A2 gene, as shown by our Japanese guy holding a four flag and five maraca for SLC 45. All that this form is most common in individuals of Japanese descent, but the clinical features are the same as type 2. This is why we've drawn our Japanese man wearing a shirt with the Japanese flag on it and the sail as an outline of our two pelican. Well that about sums up this totally Rufus sketch. Now I'm going to go watch free willy and cry out all my emotions. I'll see you next time.
