TRANSCRIPT: Overgrowth Syndromes
============================================================

Ooh, doggy, it is heating up this summer! And there's nothing like a cool ride of the amazing Amazon River ride to cool you off! And, you can check out some of history's mysteries, maybe even get a scare while you're at it. So, we chose the Amazon River ride because Amazonians should remind you of giant or overgrown, and this cool, slow, flowing river ride should remind you of vascular malformations. These features are common to all the disorders covered in this sketch, and the spooky Tomb Raider-esque décor features will help remind you of the high-yield systemic manifestations. Now, before we get moving, it's worth noting that we will cover disorders that are included as part of the PIK3CA related overgrowth spectrum, and they'll be on the near side of the river, while those that are due to mutations in other genes, they'll be on the opposite side. Note that there's a line along the ground to delineate the end of the rapids, but more importantly, anything to the right of this line, share the feature of macrocephaly. Alright, now hop in and let's get this baby going. Hands up while the bar goes down. Uh-huh. Alright, yep, you're tight. Alright, so, first part of our sketch is the Amazonian, who apparently is a bit of a trooper because she's come into work despite being crippled. This crippled worker on a crutch will represent Clippel-Trenonny Syndrome, which is due to mosaic mutations in the PIK3CA gene, and characterized by vascular malformations with overgrowth. Alright, so when I read PIK3CA, I can't help but think of a pike. Huh, so, like this little guy over here, we got some wooden pikes lining the river, and they've stuck a three-hard on it to scare off unwanted voyagers. Specifically, patients with KTS present with well-demarcated, dark or blotchy, deep-vanus malformations on the extremity with overgrowth of the affected limb. Kanah like her with her abnormally large cast with what appears to be portwine spilled all over it. Huh, no wonder she got injured. Drinking portwine while in the job? Not a good idea. Also, I believe it's an Oshavaylation. While not explicitly shown, lymphatics are frequently involved in these cases, there's often massive overgrowth due to lymphedema. These malformations favor the lateral thigh and often show up on tests as classic coda crumb. Additionally, geographic capillary malformations predict a progressive course with high risk of complication, such as cellulitis and severe leg length discrepancies, which is progressive, and requires lifelong orthopedic consultation. While it's important to recognize the cutaneous features, it's more important to recognize that there may be deep vascular malformations, and in these instances, they're often associated with hand and foot deformities. Oh, now talking about a hand deformity. What is she doing with her hand? Is that a Vulcan Salutation? I don't know, Amazonians or Nerds? Alright, so we've shown our Amazonian waving with her hand in a Vulcan greeting to remind you of distal extremity deformities, such as sendactually and macro-dactually. By the way, I want to mention at this point that a disorder called Park's Weber Syndrome can present almost identically to KTS with two exceptions. First, Park's Weber will have arteriovanous fisculas, aka fast-flow vascular anomalies, and second, Park's Weber does not have digital anomalies, like those seen in KTS. Alright, but let's move on. It's not surprising that the presence of deep vascular malformations comes with the risk of deep vascular complications, such as deep vein thrombosis and protein losing entropathies, due to intestinal malabsorption, secondary to involvement of the GI vascular. Most importantly for the test and real life, you need to be aware that they're at high risk of life-threatening pulmonary embolism, pulmonary hypertension, and right-sided heart failure. To recall this, remember that our crippled worker isn't taking any chances of falling in and drowning. She's put on her conspicuously lung-shaped vest, and recalled that this heart is dripping blood to remind you of the pulmonary complications, secondary to thrombosis, and resulted in pulmonary hypertension and heart failure. Oh, not check out this head. This Easter Island-esque head will represent McGallan-Sepheli-Capillary Malformation Syndrome, which is again due to post-igotic mosaic mutations in PIK3CA, and characterized by progressive McGallan-Sepheli and Capillary Malformations. Duh! For MCM, recall that the giant Easter Island head is on the near side of the river with the PIK3CA pikes, and the giant head with its bright red stripe down the center should remind you of McGallan-Sepheli and Capillary Malformations. In addition to just having a big head, they have what's termed frontal bossing, which is shown by the very prominent forehead and brow on the statue. While the overgrowth is often present at birth, unlike all other syndromes depicted in the sketch, it's not progressive, and we've depicted this with a sign for our voyatures to go no farther. Notably, the Capillary Malformations manifest as a widespread reticulated, block-like, persistent, mid-facial, nevis-simplex, aka, stork bite. We'll show these features in the water by adding a little stork just hanging out in the water, looking for a snack, a raft with block-like seats, and some cool, reticular nets to hold onto in case the water gets rough ahead. For, if you want something simple, just remember that the red paint on the face is the mid-facial distribution, less notably, but still important for dermatology. These patients often have hyper-elastic soft skin. So, here at Terminomonics, if we want you to think of a elastic skin, we use a slingshot. Like this one that the kid in the raft is holding. In some instances, this elasticity is associated with prominent veins, so we're called as vein-like exposed water hose. A common theme with vascular malformations is that if there's a big one, you should worry about deeper structures. So, it stands to reason a big capillary on the mid-facial region, you better worry about the brain. We'll help you out by showing a skewered brain on a pike here by the head. Specifically, they may have cerebellar tonsular ectopia, plus or minus herniation and ventricular megalomy. Because of this, Neuroimaging is recommended and you should know that they're at an increased risk for seizures, hence the discarded seizure-seasure salad on the ground here. Lastly, a clue that often shows up on boards is the presence of sendactually, sandal-gap deformity of the feet, and or a Wilms tumor. We'll show sendactually again with our raft rider given a Vulcan salute, and we'll show one of our Amazonians missing a thong sandal here on the shore, and we'll give our passenger a kidney satchel to wear to remind you of Wilms tumor. Hmm, how about this, huh? Those are some absolutely lovely clovers. These clovers are a recurring hook for Cloves syndrome, which stands for congenital lipomatus overgrowth, vascular anomalies, epidermal nevi, and scoliosis or skeletal anomalies. Again, Cloves is due to post-cygotic mosaic PIK-3CA mutations, hence its location on the near side of the river. Unfortunately, I am not that great at remembering acronyms, and for those of you who are like me, well, we'll be showing the features visually as well. Starting with this lipoma-reparducky raft. These lipomatus growths generally occur on the trunk and are often associated with lymphatic malformations within and vascular malformations overline. Of course, vascular malformations should be self-explanatory given that, well, this is the particular sketch for that, but specifically the capillary malformations closely resemble those seen in CCM, with a reticular and well-demarcated appearance. Now unlike CCM, this raft is so much cooler than that lame one with blocks or seats. I mean, this kid is even having a better time. Check out that PIG-skinned Eddie Bra. Recall that we use a football anytime that we want you to recall epidermal nevi. The most testable skeletal anomaly is scoliosis, which is abnormal curvature of the spine. One more reminder of this with this curved spine on the ground. If you have the brain space, you can also use this hook to remember that they may also develop spinal and paraspinal AVMs. I mean, they did warn us to go no farther. I'm guessing this is why. Outside of these features, Clove syndrome closely mimics CCM, so I like to think of it as CCM+. The features that overlap include sandal gap deformity, risk of Wilms tumor, and McGallan Cepheli. Well, it's Hemi McGallan Cepheli. So let's add another thong sandal on the ground, and a kidney satchel to our raft rider for sandal gap deformity and Wilms tumor. Next, we'll add another McGallan Cepheli Easter Island head, but this time it's half sunken the mud to remind you of Hemi McGallan Cepheli. Alright, now that we've wrapped up the PIK3CA related overgrowth disorders, let's move on to one of my favorite characters. And it's one of the test rider's favorite topics, Proteus syndrome. For those of you who don't know the backstory, we're going to take a short detour to help around how your knowledge. In Greek mythology, Proteus was a lesser god of the sea, who was also a shepherd of seals. But, he also knew all things past, present, and future. However, he didn't like to share that knowledge, and in order to ask him a question, he had to surprise and bind him during his midday nap. This was easier said than done, because he had the ability to change into any shape that he pleased in order to escape. This ability to change his shape and appearance is where the word Proteus is derived. But also how Proteus syndrome got its name. The skin findings are progressive and always changing. Now that we've covered that, shift your focus back to Proteus where you'll notice a billboard behind him that reads Act Like a Pro with our number one sword on it. This sign reminding you to be your best and to act like a pro is a common mnemonic used to remember that mosaic activated mutations in AKT1 are responsible for Proteus syndrome. Well, it's not really relevant clinically. You should know for the test that AKT is involved in the mTOR pathway. So we brought back our mTOR Jeep from the Bert Hog Dubé and tuberous sclerosis sketches, and we've shown it on the highway by this sign. Clinically, Proteus has a lot of overlap with other syndromes in the sketch, such as overgrowth and vascular anomalies. But the most testable and pathonomonic finding is the presence of serreperformed connective tissue nevi on the palms and soles. We use a football to remind you of epidermal or connective tissue nevi, but in this case, this low budget water park has tried to fancy up a football to look like a brain, which Proteus is holding up as a reminder that he is not to be messed with. Whilst a re-perform connective tissue nevi are the most testable, cutaneous feature, test writers generally give you that in the questions then they ask about systemic complications. In Proteus syndrome, you should know that they're at risk of DVT and pulmonary embolisms. So let's give Proteus a vessel like hose that he's gripping to stop off the water flow and a pulmonary life vest. Now I know what you're thinking. Why would a statue need a life jacket? Because despite the low budget and producing this ride, safety is their first priority. Speaking of safety, if a patient with Proteus syndrome has shortness of breath, you better screen for a PE. Additionally, you may notice the bumpy, cystic-like structures in his life jacket, and that is because that risk of developing Bola of the lungs, which can rupture leading to pneumothorax. So keep that at the back of your mind. Oh, now those are some interesting lights that they chose to illuminate the billboard. They look a little like ovaries. That is because patients with Proteus syndrome are predisposed to a variant-cisted nomas, and in males it'll be testicular tumors. Additionally, but not as high-yield, so we've chosen not to show it in the busy sketch. They may develop parodid monomorphic adenomas. Now that we've covered the most important features, let's cover the less-node ones. Starting with another lipoma, rubber-ducky raft, and passenger, because like cloves, Proteus can have lipomatis overgrowth in addition to the well-demarcated, trunk-old, vascular malformations, and overgrowth. Oh, no. It looks like Proteus has claimed another victim and left his mangled spine-offer display. He can clothe syndrome, Proteus is associated with numerous skeletal anomalies such as mega-spondalo dysplasia, with resultant scoliosis. Because of this, in addition to the massive limb overgrowth, these patients need lifelong orthopedic care. While less testable, but maybe still worth knowing, these patients generally have some degree of cognitive impairment and may also develop hemimagallincephaly. So we've added our recurrent slow sign for cognitive delay, and another easter island head, ruined, partially buried in the mud for hemimagallincephaly. When you suspect Proteus syndrome, you should also consider P10 hammer-toma syndrome, which is included in a group of disorders that all result from mutations in P10 and manifest with a spectrum of findings. This spectrum includes benaean-rily-ruvacolba syndrome, cowden syndrome, P10 hammer-toma syndrome, and some rare cases of Proteus syndrome. Because of the confusing nomenclature and overlap of findings between all of the conditions, we've simply included our recurrent P10 highway sign, but we're not going to add hooks for the findings because they're all considered variable. You should just try to recall that they can have lymphedema, high flow or low flow AVM's, lipomas, epidermal Nevi, pigmented genital macules, tricholomomas, PPK, sclerotic fibromas, increased cancer risk, and macrosephaly. So basically you can just think of it as cowden with AVM's. Last, and probably the simplest, is diffuse capillary malformation with overgrowth or DCMO, which is shown by our star Amazonian Gina Carano. Why Gina? Because she's awesome, crazy tall, and the mutation responsible for DCMO is in GNA11. So let's also give Gina 2 number 1 swords on her hips to remind you of GNA11. Technically, this manifests just like it sounds, with widespread reticulate capillary malformations and overgrowth. However, unlike KTS, you should know that the overgrowth does not correspond to the capillary malformation. So we've given Gina a net to use just in case she needs to fish out a crazy kid, and we'll show it draped over her upper extremity to remind you of the reticulate capillary malformation. Can you see how her covered arm looks small or normal-sized, but the other one is jacked and big? That's because the capillary malformation and overgrowth does not correspond. In addition to overgrowth, they may have associated limb abnormalities, such as syndactyl or sandal gap deformity. So notice that Gina is given a proud Vulcan salute back to her fellow Amazonian, and there's another thong flip flop on the groundfire. Luckily, like Cranio Megaly, with capillary malformation syndrome, DCMO is not progressive, and can have variable prominent veins. So we'll include another sign warning the adventurers to go no farther, and another partially exposed hose peeking through the ground. Note that unlike all the other conditions in the sketch, these patients do not have true venous or lymphatic malformations, and there aren't any systemic findings you need to be aware of. Alright, now that is a lot to remember regarding these conditions, and unfortunately, it seems like test writers like to ask about these disorders. So let's do our best to sum up the sketch, and we're going to review the hooks. This sketch, depicting the Amazon River ride, covers overgrowth syndromes associated with vascular malformations. It's divided into foreground and background by the river, and all the disorders in the foreground are due to PIK3CA mutations, which is shown by the pikes in the ground. While those in the background each have a unique mutation. It's farther divided into left and right by a line demarcating the end of the rapids, and the disorders to the left of the line to not have macrosophally, while those to the right do have macrosophally. It's also worth noting that pretty much all of these disorders have the possibility of associated digital anomalies, P10 hammertoma syndrome being the only exception. But proteus syndrome isn't associated with syntactically or sandal gap deformity like all the others. Furthermore, because of the significant amount of overlap with each condition, it's often hard to differentiate, so I'll point out the highly testable details as we go, but we've also tried to place the disorders with the most overlap near each other. First is clipoltrinonis syndrome, which is shown by a crippled amazonian in the front left. The classic codecrome is of a massively overgrown lake with lymphedema and associated vascular malformations, such as Port-Wine stain. This is shown by her giant lake in a cast and the Port-Wine that she spilled all over it, with deep, faintest malformations come deep, faintest complications, most notably DVTs with subsequent PEs and pulmonary hypertension and limb malformations. So recall that she's wearing the lung-shaped life vest and her Vulcan salute. Additionally, the three heart and pale on the pike is to help you recall PIK3CA, but also because the pulmonary hypertension can result in heart failure. Recall that this is a slow flow river because unlike Park Webber syndrome, it doesn't have fast flow malformations. The giant Easter Island head is the hook from McGal and Cepheli capillary malformations syndrome, which is characterized by progressive McGal and Cepheli, widespread reticulated capillary malformations, frontal Boston, persistent mid-facial nevis simplex, hyperelastic skin, and digital anomalies. These are shown by the big head from McGal and Cepheli, the widespread net on the raft to remind you of the reticulated capillary malformation, a stork for persistent nevis complex, the slingshot for hyperelastic skin, the rider given the sendacty Vulcan salute, and the thong flip flops and wool. The most notable systemic complications are related to the central nervous system, namely Sarah Belar, Tonsular, Ectopia, with seizures. So remember the brain impaled on the pike and the seizure, Caesar salad, discarded on the ground. Also recall that the go no farther sign placed by the head is to remind you that MCM is not progressive. Lastly, remember that there's a risk for Wilms tumor, hence why a rider is wearing a kidney satchel. Plove syndrome is portrayed in the front right by the patch of clovers. Recall that the name is an acronym for congenital lipomatus overgrowth, vascular malformations, epidermal nevi, and skeletal anomalies. These are shown by the lipoma rubber ducky raft, when should remind you of lipomatus overgrowth. The kid holding the epidermal nevis, pig skin football, and the skeleton and flip flot for scoliosis, and sandal gap deformity. Again, there's a risk of Wilms tumor in these patients, so we've included another kidney satchel on this rider. Proteus syndrome is shown by the statue of the Greek god Proteus. It's due to mutations in act 1, so remember the sign that says act like a pro. Recall that this functions in the MTOR pathway, so we've added an MTOR tour Jeep on the highway near the sign. You need to be able to recognize the cerebral form connective tissue nevi of the palms and soles, because this is the most defining feature and is shown by the brain looking football in Proteus' hand. Test riders like to give you the easy to recognize features, and then ask about systemic manifestations. So know that like KTS, there's a risk of DVT and PE, shown by the long life fest in the vessel like hose that's being blocked. Furthermore, they may develop pulmonary bola, hence why this life jacket is bubbly. They're also at risk for ovarian cysts of nomas or testicular tumors in males, hemimigalin cepheli, cognitive impairment, and lipomatus overgrowth. So recall the ovaria-esque lights for ovarian cysts of nomas, the half-married giant head for hemimigalin cepheli, slow cognitive impairment sign, and lipoma rubberducky raft. P10 hammertoma syndrome isn't discussed in detail because it's basically just a variable mix of features from cowdins and banean-rily rovacalba, plus arteriovenous malformations. Last, this diffuse capillary malformation with overgrowth, which is shown on the back left by Gina Carano. We chose Gina and put two one swords on her hips to remind you of the mutation that is in GNA-11. Clinically, it presents with reticulate capillary malformations shown by the reticulate net. Recall that unlike KTS, the overgrowth does not correspond to the affected area, which is why we've shown her uncovered arm as being much larger. It does have a chance of digital abnormalities such as syntacty and sandal-gap deformity, but it's not progressive and there aren't any systemic features to be aware of. This is shown by her giving the vulcan salute, the thong flip flop, and the go-no farther sign. Alright, now this was a long one and it was full of detail and diseases that overlap, so make sure you review these conditions to nail down the subtle differences. I hope you can use this sketch as a starting point to help you organize these conditions. Good luck and I'll catch you next time.
