TRANSCRIPT: Pachyonychia Congenita (Part 2)
============================================================

Pack up and let's put put. Today, we're swinging by the hottest put put course, Pack a snack put put. And we're learning about Paccio Nica congenita, which is a group of inherited disorders in keratin that results in numerous cutaneous manifestations involving the nails, skin, and teeth. There are two types, type 1 and type 2. And as if genodermatosis aren't hard enough, they're also known as jatison lundowski and jackson luller types. These subtypes do have different mutations and manifestations, so we'll be showing type 1 on the left half of the sketch and type 2 on the right. Now one of the ways that I was taught to remember the epinems is that jatison and lundowski sound like names that immigrants might have used before coming to the US, and jackson luller sounds like their second names after moving. However, I prefer to just recall that type 1 is on the left and type 2 is on the right. You can remember that this sketch covers Paccio Nica, but recalling the nice relaxing bench here in the middle that reads Pacacnack with a carrot decoration on it. Yeah, we're promoting a fun, outdoor activity, and healthy snacking in this sketch. Go figure. Furthermore, recall that the carrot should remind you that the defects aren't keratin, but also notice that the seat of the bench looks a little oddly like a domino. Well, this is because Paccio Nica congenita is transmitted through autosomal dominant inheritance. Alright, now that we got the boring stuff out of the way, let's tee off and introduce our first character, the boy on the left. He'll be representing Paccio Nica type 1. You can recall that PC type 1 is also known as jatison lundowski type by remembering this billboard in the back, advertising for jatison and lundowski law firm. Sounds legit, right? PC type 1 is due to mutations in keratin 6A and 16, which we've shown by giving our boy our recurring 6 golf club and adding a challenge in a obstacle that he has to putt putt through. Additionally, you might notice this one sword and 6 golf club adornments on either side of the hole, which should remind you of keratin 16, or hole 16 in this case. The most testable feature of PC type 1 is benign oral leukoplegia, which manifests as white plaques on the tongue and buccal mucosa. Test often like to show you a picture of messed up nails and leukoplegia, and then ask if you should worry about the leukoplegia. The answer is no, it's not pre-malignant. Ah, a dag, nammot. Despite our best efforts, this rascal brought some cotton candy which he's munching on, and that's going to remind you of oral leukoplegia. The other notable feature that differentiates type 1 from type 2 is follicular hyper caratosis over the knees, elbows back and buttocks. So let's throw some follicle-like blades of grass scattered around him, some molehill bumps on the pudding-green, and some elbow knee pads on the store. I'm in command, dude. How intense do you think pup pup gets? Now, let's move on and talk about pacionicia congenitor type 2, which will be shown by our teenage girl over on the right. We've chosen to show a young boy and teenage girl because expression usually begins in childhood, but full expression isn't typically seen until early adulthood. Type 2 is also due to keratin 6 mutations, but in this case, it's keratin 6B. Hence, why we've shown this girl hold into 6 golf club, but you'll notice that the pudding-green roughly forms the letter B. Furthermore, PC type 2 has associated keratin 17 defects, so let's add another one sword and 7 boomerang on either side of the green to remind you of keratin 17. Okay, so unlike type 1, PC type 2 is what nightmares are made of. Not to get too personal, but my sisters made me watch jaws when I was little, and my nightmares have been filled with sharks ever since. Like this one. This giant shark obstacle with its teeth showing should remind you that patients with PC type 2 present with natal teeth, which is what my nightmares now consist of. Another cutaneous feature you should recognize is the presence of multiple stiato systemas, so notice the interest and shrubbery in the center of the green that form little cysts like bumps and has follicle-like grass sticking out of it. Additionally, you might recall that the classic histology buzzword for stiato systema is having a shark tooth cuticle, so again, remember the shark teeth. While not explicitly shown, you should recall for the test that patients with an isolated mutation in keratin 17 will present with stiato systema multiplex, which manifests as small cystic lesions most often over the central chest. Now that we've gone over the unique features in type 1 and 2, Paciognica congenita, let's cover some shared features which will be shown in the center of the sketch. Haha, alright now this kid, he's my kind of golfer. This kid will go to any extreme to get his ball back, and at least he will smart enough to take a shoes off. Something I may have forgotten to do when I did this. This kid who's gone into the water hazard to get his ball and is dripping with water is to represent the hyperhydrosis seen in Paciognica congenita, and if you notice that the boy's shoes are placed on the pebbles scattered around the water, then this should remind you of the Palmer planter keratiderma that develops over time. But specifically, it tends to affect the feet more than the hands and is very painful, hence the shoes on the pebbles. And if you aren't convinced that this kid has some practice at this, well, you try jumping in upon without losing your sunglasses. These are the recurring, ocular involvement sunglasses which in Paciognica congenita takes the form of corneal dystrophy. Last but not least, shift your focus to the center background where they're working on making some new holes. The pincer crane picking up this oddly nail-looking garbage is to remind you of the nail changes from which Paciognica congenita gets its name. In general, you can remember that these patients develop on a cadastrophy. However, for tests, know that a classic finding is pincer nails, which is a condition characterized by excessive transverse nail curvature. I thought that a claw on this crane would be a pretty good hook for pincer nails. Alright, let's wrap it up and review the hooks. This sketch titled Pacisnack Putpuck covers Paciognica congenita types 1 and 2, which are due to autosomal dominant mutations in carotens, hence the carotens carrot and autosomal dominant domino on the bench. Type 1 is shown on the left, and you can recall the eponym for type 1 is Jatison Lewandowski, as shown by the Jatison Lewandowski law firm Billboard. There's no real need to remember the other eponym. Just remember that it's also J-something else something, and it's not Jatison Lewandowski. Type 1 is due to mutations in carotens 6A and 16, and is notable for benign oral leukoplegia and follicular hypercarotosis. This is shown by the 6 golf club, one sword and 6 golf club decorations, cotton candy, and follicle-like grass, molehills, and elbow knee pads respectively. Type 2 is due to mutations in carotens 6B and 17, and is notable for natal teeth and stiato systemas. This is shown by the 6 golf club, one sword and 7 boomerang decorations, shark with lots of teeth, and cysts like bumps with follicle-like hairs. Features that are shared with both types 1 and 2 are shown in the center. Remember the boy who went all in to get his ball back and his dripping water from him to remind you of hyperhidrosis, but at least he's taken his shoes off and left them on the pebbles, which should remind you of PPK that's most severe on the feet. The ocular sunglasses are to remind you of corneal atrophy that is sometimes present. Lastly, remember the cool claw crane in the back that's picking up the nail-looking garbage, which should remind you of anaka dystrophy seen in all patients, but more specifically, pincer nails, which is the test favorite. And I get out here crazy kids, I'll catch you next time.
