TRANSCRIPT: Pemphigus Vulgaris and Variants
============================================================

Is there anything more exciting than a day at the zoo? I just love watching the vulgar little monkeys scratching themselves and throwing poop, but let's talk about a family of blushing disorders, specifically the Pemphagus family. This family of disorders is due to auto-antibodies, IgG, more commonly than IgA, the target various proteins of the Desmosomal Complex causing acantholysis histologically and blistering clinically. So to begin, let's start in the front with our first character who's checking out this awesome parrot. The parrot is to remind you of paranetoplastic pemphagus, which can be due to auto-antibodies to nearly any component of the Desmosomal Complex, but most commonly targets Desmosomal Glee and One and Desmos Glee and Three. So to help you remember this, we'll include our occurring symbols, the three hard, shown here as the perch for a parrot, and a one sword, slung over the back of our observer. Most commonly, P&P is due to hematologic malignancies. In adults, this means non-hotchkin lymphoma. So let's put our occurring lime in our paratomouth for lymphoma. In children, however, P&P is most commonly associated with Castleman's disease. And what a lucky parrot we have. He doesn't just get a bird house, he gets a bird castle, to remind you of Castleman's. Another kneeplows you may be expected to recognize is a thymoma. Fortunately, this isn't malignant, but let's add a thyroid-shaped bow tie to our parrot. In deep drupty, he's so sophisticated. Some of the test riders favorite mynisha include the best substrate to use when standing with indirect immunoforescence. For paratoneoplastic pempheus, you should know that rat-bottle is the best. So let's draw some yummy rats in the cage for the parrot to snack on later. You can also think, rats, I have cancer. Now let's shift our focus to the observer. These are going to represent the important clinical facts he needs to know. First, you should know that the most common cause of mortality in his patients is due to the underlying malignancy or bronchialitis of blitterins due to severe involvement of the airways. To emphasize this, we'll give the observer a hat, the recurring crab on it, and add some staining sucees shirt that kind of look like lungs. Furthermore, the classic coda crums you'll see in the test is a patient with severe erosions involving the vermilion border, lip, and mouth. So remember this respirator covering the guy's mouth. He's not going to get the coronal virus. No weight, no how. Fortunately, treatment of the underlying malignancy is often accompanied by resolution of the blisterin disease. On a more practical note, paratoneoplastic pempheus will often involve the hands and feet. This isn't a feature commonly seen with people garrison or peepholeatius. So check out this once in a lifetime opportunity to get the hands on and feed the parrot. The parrot's pretty cool, but I still think my favorite exhibits are monkey exhibits. Sure, they're a little vulgar. But that should help you remember that the monkey exhibit will remind you the important facts regarding peepholegarris. This can involve the skin and mucus membranes, but in some instances predominantly only the mucus membranes. The differences in clinical presentations are dependent on which component of the desert zone is targeted. Specifically, mechocutaneous peepholegarris is due to auto-antibodies, targeting desemiglian 3 and 1. However, mechocel predominant is due to adenibodies targeting only desemiglian 3. So let's take a step back and use this graph here to review the basic science. Desemiglian 1 is expressed primarily in the skin and not the mucus membranes. It's expressed at all levels of the epidermis with the highest concentrations in the top and lowest concentrations in the bottom. Therefore, if desemiglian 1 is targeted, you can expect to see skin blisters, and on histology there'll be worse in the superficial epidermis and less so in the deeper epidermis. However, desemiglian 3 is expressed in the mechocel membranes as well as the skin and is expressed primarily in the lower portions of the epidermis. Therefore, if you have desemiglian 3 as your target, you can expect mechocel involvement and you can expect epidermal involvement but not severe epidermal involvement because desemiglian 1 at the lower 1-3rd of the epidermis will still compensate to some degree. Let's reinforce this in a fun way. Look at our monkey with his mouth wide open. This is to represent mechocel predominant pevil garris. To remind you that only desemiglian 3 is targeted, we'll give him a heart shaped cookie but we'll also draw this kid here monkey and around with a 3 heart shaped shield. He probably shouldn't be doing that but why is he all by himself? You can't just have one monkey though so let's give him a friend hang with. The second monkey is to represent mechocutaneous pevil garris and let's put in another little kid here playing too. But notice how this kid has both a 3 heart shield and a 1 heart sword for desemiglian 3 and desemiglian 1 in the mechocutaneous form of pevil garris. Also note that we've drawn the little boys wearing Yamacas. That's because the Jewish population is at an increased risk of developing pevil garris. Again, remember that test riders often like to go after what substrate to use with indirect immune fluorescence. For pevil garris, the answer is monkey esophagus. That's why I chose to use monkeys. Alright alright, that's enough monkey business. Let's see what else the zoo has to offer. That's nabbit if that's not the largest guinea pig I've ever seen. And what beautiful foliage in her cage. The guinea pig cage with lots of foliage is to remind you of pefoliasis. Pefoliasis is due to auto antibodies targeting desemiglian 1. So let's add another zoo customer here, marveling at the world's largest guinea pig. He's brought his one sword and is rocking a t-shirt with a Brazilian flag. The Brazilian flag is to remind you that there's an endemic form of pefoliasis known as fogo selvagium, primarily seen in rural Brazil. It's thought to be transmitted through the simulian fly species, also known as the black fly. So let's draw a little bit of guinea poo in here and add some black flies buzzing around. Let's also add some cool fur to our guinea pig in sort of a severed distribution. To remind you that clinically, these patients will get superficial blisters and erosions in a severed distribution. Again notice our one sword on the old man's hip. This is because pefoliasis is due to auto antibodies targeting desemiglian 1. I'm not the only one that finds it weird that this old guy is here by himself. I come for the monkeys, but I stay for the guinea pig. He's probably just a little sea now, but young at heart. Hopefully this can help you remember that pefoliasis can overlap with lupus in a syndrome called senar usher or pyrothermetosis, which ironically affects young patients. Also take a look at his cane. It actually kind of looks like a wizard staff, doesn't it? That's because desemiglian 1 also happens to be the target of staff arias as exfoliative toxin. And again, note that the best substrate to use for pefoliasis on indirect immunofluorescence is guinea pigusophias, hence the guinea pig. I'm not exactly sure how the zoo stays in business, while that explains it. There's a very loose drug policy. Must be one of those progressive california zoos. A guy doing drugs will serve as a recurring hook for drug induced disease. In the case of pimpagus, this most commonly presents as pefoliasis, but it can manifest as pevolgeris or pefoliasis. It should come as no surprise to you then that drug induced pimpagus results in either desemiglian 1 or desemiglian 3 auto-antibodies. We'll show this with a three heart on our drug lover's shirt and a one sword fight the resistance man. The most common drugs to cause pimpagus like eruptions are those containing self-hydrogroups, which can also cause acynthylizes directly. It'll lead to penicillamine and asinhibitors. To remind you that it's drugs with self-hydrogroups, we'll emphasize the SH of the shop sign next to our drug guy. Furthermore, to emphasize that it's penicillamine, take a look at the pencil on the ground. Let's phone home and bring the sketch full circle by talking about IgA pimpagus. Shown here with phone booth A, IgA pimpagus is due to auto-antibodies targeting desemiglian 1. So take a look at the doors on our phone booth and see that one call only sign? That's your mind you have Desemigl colon, one. We'll talk about the clinical features in another sketch. So let's sum this sketch up a going over the hooks one more time. In our front we have our parrot for paranetplastic pimpagus. This is due to auto-antibodies to desemiglian 3 and desemiglian 1. Remember the three heart roost and the one sword. Usually it's caused by hematologic malignant seas. When adults this means non-hodgkin lymphoma, remember the lime. And in children this means castle man's disease, remember the bird house castle. However, there is an association with thymomas, so also try to remember the bowtie on the parrot's neck. Clinically, they like to show you a picture of someone with severe stomatitis involving the vermilion lit and all the oral mucosa. So remember the respirator that the guy is wearing covering his mouth to remind you of severe stomatitis. The number one cause of death in these patients is their underlying malignancy, the crab hat. Or broncholitis obliterance, remember the lung stains. On indirect immunofluorescence, the best substrate to use is rat bladder. Talking about the monkeys, remember how vulgar they are. This is for peevolgarris. Two forms classically present the mucocutaneous or the mucosal predominant. Our mucosal predominant form is our monkey eating the heart cookie. This is because the heart cookie should remind you that it's only desemgly in three in the mucosal form. Also remember that the little boy playing in front of that monkey only has a three shield, no sword. However, the mucocutaneous monkey in the back scratching his armpit is due to desemgly in one and desemgly in three antibodies. So remember that the boy in front here has a sword and a three shield. Peevolgatious is shown here in the back by our guinea pig, Sivit. During all the foliage in the exhibit, the guinea pig's blue dots should remind you of the separate distribution of peevolgatious. And the poo in the corner is mainly to remind you of the black fly as being a vector for the endemic form called fogoselvagium. Fogoselvagium is primarily seen in Brazil. That's why we've drawn our observer wearing a Brazilian flag t-shirt. Our senile observer also has a little wolf tattoo on his leg. Let's remind you that the overlap syndrome between lupus and peevolgatious is called senar usher. We have drug induced panpegus, shown by our drug user over here by the shop. Drug induced panpegus can result in peevolgatious most commonly, but also in peevolgarrus like eruptions. We show this here by the one sword and the three heart. Remember that the most common drugs to cause drug induced panpegus are those with a self-hydro group such as penicillamine or ACE inhibitors. Remember that SH being emphasized in the shop sign and the pencil on the ground next to him for penicillamine, which is probably the most commonly tested. Lastly, we'll talk about IgA panpegus. Remember that it's due to DesmoCallin1, shown by the one call only, an IgA panpegus by the A phone booth. Well, that's it folks. Catch you at the next sketch.
