TRANSCRIPT: Perforating Disorders
============================================================

Hey, welcome back. This week we're going to highlight the most high yield facts of perforating disorders in this sketch depicting the famous office supply store perforate paper products. Yeah, right. I know. It's a pretty terrible name. Haha. Specifically, we'll cover the entity's reactive perforating calcific elastosis, curlease disease, elastosis perforance serpigenosa, and familial reactive perforating collagenosis. As a group, these disorders are characterized by transepidermal elimination of the dermal proteins collagen or elastin, and can be either inherited or acquired, but unfortunately, they don't respond well to treatment. Let's get started by introducing our first character here on the left, and they'll represent perforating calcific elastosis, which is an acquired disorder characterized by transepidermal elimination of elastic fibers. To remind you that it's calcified elastic fibers, we'll show our woman holding a bottle of high calcium milk and sporting some stretchy, elastic, comfy pants. Though rare, PCE classically occurs in multiple obese black women and presents with peri-umbillical plaques on the abdomen. So to depict this, we've shown our woman as pregnant and maybe a little on the heavy side. Furthermore, her rambunctious children have caused her to spill the milk on her belly, which is peaking through the shirt that she's outgrown. Notably, the extruded fibers closely resemble the calcified elastic fibers seen on histology of pseudo-zanthoma elasticum, and will give our mom some elastic bands around her wrist to remind you of pseudo-zanthoma elasticum. Now, let's move on and talk about the most common perforating disorder, colloquially called Curly's Disease, which will depict what the woman with curly hair and the curly design on her dress. Curly's disease is more commonly known as acquired perforating dermatosis and is typically seen in adult patients who almost inevitably have diabetes, maladis, and or renal failure. We should recall that we depict diabetes-meladis with candy like the candy the woman is looking at. And to remind you that renal failure is also a common association, we've given our woman a recurring, kidney satchel. Clinically, Curly's is characterized by incredibly paritic papules with a central caratotic plug and occur most commonly on the lower extremities. So we'll give our woman some papules on her legs to remind you of the distribution. Oh, well now this is an interesting character. That crazy face tattoo of a serpent. This young man with a serpent tattoo on his face will be our hook for elastosis, perforance, serpigenosa, or EPS for short. EPS is a rare acquired perforating disorder most commonly seen in childhood or early adulthood with strong male to female predominance with about four to one, and typically manifesting on the lateral neck more so than the face or upper extremities. Hence, why are characters a young man with a snake tattoo on his neck and face? Because only a young man would think a face tattoo is a good idea. Clinically, EPS presents with anular to serpigenous plaques, studded with caratotic papules along the rim. We'll show these features by adding in some office supplies with anular shapes here on the shelves, but we're also going to add our favorite office helper Clipit as a decoration on the end of the aisle. And if you don't remember who Clipit is, then you can just get out, alright? The little dude was the only thing that made Keyboard in fun. Anyways, you should focus on how Clipit has a serpigenous configuration and how the sign is being held to the shelf by little pins around his border to recall that the plaques are serpentine and the perforating elastic fibers result in papules studded periodically throughout the border. A test question may show you the histology and expect you to recognize the classic appearance of a crusted caratotic plug enveloping epithelial hyperplasia around the pink elastic fibers in the superficial dermis. Sometimes this is described as having a crab claw appearance. Well, remind you of this feature by giving our character a grabber arm that looks a little like a claw. For the test, simply identifying EPS isn't enough. They also expect you to know the associated conditions that EPS can be seen in. A popular pneumonic to remember this is Mad Pores, and we'll spell it out for you literally on the ends of the next two aisles, and we're going to add hooks for each condition to the respective shelf. Sometimes stands for Marfan's syndrome, so let's include the Marfan the Martian Helmets. A stands for Acrogeria, which is shown with the painting depicting a young versus an aged face. D stands for Down syndrome or Trisomey 21, so let's add a two swan paper weight and a one-sword letter opener to the bottom shelf. On the far right, P stands for Sudo's Anthoma Elasticum and Penicillamine, which are shown with our PXE Elastic bands and pencils respectively. ORE and S stands for osteogenesis imperfecta, Rothman Thompson, Ellers Danlos and Scleroderma, and they're shown with a cool skeleton model, rotwiler stuffed animal, flexible Ellers Danlos gymnast toys, and Scleroderma shields respectively. Just my opinion, but shouldn't every boring office store have a toy aisle? That way the kids stop pestering their mom and they can actually have some fun? Last, let's cover familial reactive perforating collagenosis, which we'll abbreviate as RPC. RPC is shown by our family on the right and is the only disorder that involves collagen fiber extrusion. We've chosen to show only a single shopping cart in the scene to make this disorder stand out from the others, which involve either perforation or elastic fibers or collagen. RPC typically presents in children as chorotic papules at the site of previous trauma. To remind you of this, recall the little kid in the cart with band-aids all of her arms at sites of previous trauma. Typically, delusions develop about three to four weeks after trauma, which should make sense, seen as that's the approximate time that it takes for a wound to heal. But let's give our kid a cute three heart shirt and add a four flag to the cart for reinforcement. This has to be the most exciting trip to the office supply store that you've ever had. But hey, before you check out, let's review the hooks one more time. Perforating calcific elastosis is shown by our woman holding some high calcium milk in the front left. She's depicted as an overweight pregnant black woman with several kids because this disorder is mostly seen in multiple obese black women. Notice that she spilled milk on her belly and is wearing elastic stretchy pants because the perforating elastic fibers clinically present as periumbillical plaques with peripheral chorotic papules. Recall the elastic bands on her arms. They're there to remind you that the extruded fibers of PXE can appear identically on H&E. The woman with curly hair and a curly design on her dress represents curly's disease, also known as acquired perforating dermatosis. It presents with very parodic papules on the lower extremities in the patients with diabetes and or renal disease. Hence, the papules on the woman's legs, diabetes candy, and kidney elastosis, perforance, serpigenosa is an acquired disease seen in children and young adults with a predilection for men. It occurs most commonly on the lateral neck and face. We've shown this with our young man with a serpent tattoo on his neck and face, and you can recall the circular office supplies and clippy with the peripheral studs holding him up, which are to remind you of the morphology which is described as anular to serpentine plaques with peripheral papules. He's holding a grabber arm that resembles a claw to remind you of the histologic finding of a carototic plug surrounding epithelial hyperplasia grabbing elastic fibers. Sometimes, we describe this as a crab claw. EPS can be seen in a number of conditions which can be remembered with the pneumonic mad pores, which stands for Marfan's agrogeria, Down syndrome, PXE, penicillamine, osteogenesis and perfecta, Rothman Thompson, L. Stanlose, and Sckleriderma. We've shown each disease with its own hook corresponding to the letter on the end of the aisle. The Marfan, the Martian Helmets, the painting depicting a young versus aged face, Trisomi 21, Tussuan, and one sword, PXE elastic bands, penicillamine pencils, osteogenesis imperfective skeleton, Rothman Thompson, Rothwiler, L. Stanlose gymnast, and Sckleriderma shields. The family in the front right represents familial, reactive, perforating, collagenosis, which is the only disorder that involves only collagen and is seen in children on the extremities at sites of trauma typically three to four weeks after the initial injury. You can remember this because this is the only cart in the scene. The child has bandages on the extremities at sites of trauma and the three heart and four flag. Well, I hope Dermnomonics is a staple in your learning, but if not, help us improve by sending your feedback and requests. Hey, I'll catch you next time.
