TRANSCRIPT: Phakomatoses
============================================================

Now this next sketch might frighten some of our younger viewers, but I'm okay with that. I'm just kidding guys, it's just me. Hello, and welcome to the Focomatosis Phantom's Halloween costume party covering Focomatosis Pigmento Vascularis, a disorder involving widespread capillary malformations and other cutaneous findings. We will also cover Focomatosis Pigmento Caratotica, which is a subtype of epidermonevus syndrome. I hope you brought your costume, because this sketch is about to get pretty spooky and you are going to want to blend in. Let's take a look at our first character who will represent PPV Type 1, a tipsy football fan with his number one foam finger to remind you of PPV Type 1. Oh, yikes! Looks like he spilled some red wine on his face, kind of in a dermatomal distribution. Maybe he should call a time out. Let's take a time out ourselves and briefly talk about Port wine stains or PWS for short. PWS typically develop at birth as well demarcated bright to deep red macules and patches with their color resembling Port wine, hence the wine that our footballers hold in. They can be localized, segmental, multifocal, or widespread. It's also important to note that the distribution pattern of facial PWS specifically follow branches of the trigeminal nerve with the V1 forehead and eyelid more commonly than the V2 maxillary region or the V3 mandibular region. Oh look, the refreshment table. My fave hangout spotted any party. The tablecloth says drinking and snacks, but uh, I think the goal who planned this had one too many drinks. There's a typo. This misspelled sign is to highlight that PWS are caused by a somatic mutation in the GN-AQ gene in the affected skin, or G-neck as the cool kids say. It's also important to know that this mutation is also implicated in search web or syndrome, which we'll show by adding this stuff surge and covered in spooky cobwebs, but we'll cover the details of that in a later sketch. We'll go ahead and place some of our Port wine on this table in order to drive the point now that this football player has had some time out, let's get back to covering PPV type 1. As mentioned earlier, he's holding his wine for PWS, and that pig skin on his shirt will be our recurring hook for epidermonevis, and should remind you that PPV type 1 presents with epidermonevi. Epidermonevi commonly present within the first year of life as hyper pigmented papillomatis and plaques in a linear array, hence the pig skin football across our football player's shirt with the linear laces. Oh, is that a zombie? Well, I guess someone would be cut dead at this party. This zombie is so considerate, can you see the roasted two swan that he brought as an appetizer? This is to remind you that he will represent type 2 PPV. Notice that he's holding some Port wine as well. Looks like this Halloween monster match is getting pretty boozy, and nothing makes me hungry quite like Port wine. Fortunately, the host is no mummy. They've catered some delicious Mongolian beef and broccoli, but does zombies even eat Mongolian beef? Well, I hope there's some brains in it because he's looking a little anemic. This anemic zombie will be our hook for nevis anemicus, which commonly occurs as a congenital pale area of skin with borders that blanch with warming, which differentiates it from other hypopigmented lesions. The Port wine he's having is to remind you of PWS in type 2 PPV, and the Mongolian beef represents Mongolian spots, which are also called dermal melanocytosis. Oh, no, there is nothing worse than a costume copier. Here's another zombie with nearly the same outfit. Well, at least it's a little different. I mean, he's got a hard on his shirt. Maybe it's because he loves to totally ruin and cost him parties? Jerk. But really, this costume stealer is to remind you of PPV type 3, which presents with nevis anemicus and PWS, so we'll have him hold in a glass of Port wine. But he's less about the beef and more about the sweets. He brought a delicious chocolate cake with sprinkles on it. This cake should serve to remind you of a speckled lentigianist nevis, also known as a nevis spyless, which presents as a light brown macule with speckled darker macules within it. Oh man, I'm still not over the two zombies. There's no way that both of them were invited. The reason I'm making a big deal about this is to remind you that in PPV types 2 through 4, nevis and neemicus is not required to make the diagnosis. But it's a feature that you should know because they do tend to pop up in these types of PPV. Oh wow, look at this decorative four flag. The four flag is our dermal nemonics recurrent hook for the number 4, so this flag will represent PPV type 4. Notice how the festive flag is flying over the snack table with Mongolian beef and broccoli, Port wine, speckled cake, and the zombie decorations on it. PPV type 4 presents with PWS, hence the Port wine, Mongolian spots, hence the Mongolian beef and broccoli. Nevis spyless, shown by the delicious speckled cake, and sometimes nevis and neemicus, shown by our zombie decorations. Remember that nevis and neemicus isn't required for the diagnosis, which is why the zombies are mentioned last and the decor is next to the table, rather than on it. Arggh, and holy! Now this costume girl went all out for the costume contest, and she's ready to walk the plank in her super sick pirate costume. She's got her fish net stockings, Mongolian beef and broccoli, and whoa, a five maraca for a hand. This matey represents PPV type 5, as shown by her recurrent five maraca hand. The fish net stockings represent cutus, marmarada, telangiectasia, congenita, aka CTMC. This is characterized by dark purple to red purple net-like vascular pattern, commonly affecting one or more limbs. It will also affect the corresponding quadrant of the trunk. It's important to note that unlike physiologic cutus marmarada, CTMC persists upon warming the infant, so we'll place her next to the space heater. Beside CTMC, PPV type 5 also presents with Mongolian spots, hence why the pirate is scarfing down some Mongolian beef and broccoli. Now that we've covered all of the five types of PPV, it's also important to remember that Focomatosis pigmentovascularis can also have extra cutaneous findings, which will be shown by our next character, who's dressed as a scientist. Whoa, it looks like our pirate girl and her fish net is really driving our scientists mad. Alright, sorry, I can help myself. Anyways, this mad scientist will represent the possible extracutaneous symptoms of the PPV disorders. Look at him, trying to show off to our pirate girl with his big brain hat, bionic arms, and super cool goggles. I wonder if that hat is compensated for anything. Anyways, the brain hat is to remind you that the PPV disorders can cause neurologic symptoms, while the buff bionic arms with their bone and tendonesque appearance are to remind you of the muscular skeletal symptoms, and of course the red goggles are our recurrent hook for ocular findings. And now, the moment we've all been waiting for. The costume contest. This part of the sketch will cover our next disorder, Focomatosis Pigmento Caratotica. Looks like they've already set the stage for the Focco Phantom King and Queen. The stage with the banner with the bolded PPK is to remind you that this portion of the sketch is covering PPK. Fun fact, the eponym for PPK is called Shimo Penning Syndrome, which we'll show with this shim, or for you, a mongolots ghost. Our next girl is no beauty school dropout. I better shape up if I want to talk about her, because it looks like our costume queen is none other than Sandy from Greece, and she's holding her delicious speckled cake. Man, retro is so in that is just such a good costume idea. Sandy from Greece with her yellow blonde Greeceed up hair is to remind you of Nevis sebaceus. In PPK, a Nevis spilus occurs in conjunction with a Nevis sebaceus caused by post-cygotic mutation in the H-RAS gene, which is a GT pace in the MAPK ERK pathway. We'll represent H-RAS with this science ain't don't harass, next to the glamorous costume winners. Now, before we move on to the systemic symptoms of PPK, let's review a little bit more about Nevis sebaceus. Nevis sebaceus is a benign hammertoma arising due to H-RAS mutations with follicular, apocryn, and sebaceus components, which is why they sometimes look greasy clinically and also why I've chosen a character from Greece to represent it. Nevis sebaceus are often present at birth along Blaschco lines, and become more yellow and varuchus after puberty with the scalp and face being the most common sights. Hence, Sandy's greased up scalp. Other highly testable facts to remember about Nevis sebaceus are that adnexal neoplasms commonly arise within them, specifically trichoblastoma, a benign adnexal neoplasm, being the number one. Trichoblastoma is represented by the three pronged comb that is stuck in Sandy's greasy hair. Man, that hairstyle seems like a lot of work, and it looks like she brought her own hairspray to the party. This super potent, awesome poofspray, S-PAP for short, is to represent syringia, cystadenoma, papillifrum, the second most common neoplasm to arise from the fertile skin of a nevis sebaceus. Fortunately, syringia-cisted denoma papillifrum are also benign. Lastly, basal cell carcinomas can also arise within them, and is presented by her large clam and pearl brooch. Recall that the classic description of a basal cell carcinoma is pearly. Alright, enough about Sandy. Let's move on to the Faco Phantom King, none other than Danny from Greece. It looks like the queen is giving him chills, and they're multiplying. It's electrifying! Danny will represent the systemic manifestations of PPK. Danny looks, well, a little nervous. His legs are all bowed out, he's sweating profusely, and weirdly eating a Caesar seizure salad. Must be trying to watch his figure. Well, let's hope he just doesn't get the grease lightning, if, uh, you know what I mean. The bowed out legs should remind you of hypophosphatemic vitamin D-resistant rickets that can also develop in patients with PPK. His profuse, nervous sweat, and should remind you of hyperhydrosis, which is another systemic symptom of PPK, and the Caesar salad that he's enjoying is our recurrent hook for seizures, which can also occur. Man, I'm so glad that these two still have each other, because they really go together like shoe bops, shawada, wada, yippity, boom, dup-boom. Anyway, that was a lot of information. Let's quickly sum up the spooky sketch. PPV type 1 is shown by our tipsy football player with the number one foam finger. He spilled his port wine for PWS, and the pig skin football on his shirt should remind you of an epidermal neavus. The refreshment's tablecloth, this says drinking and snacks, with the port wine on it, is to remind you that PWS are caused by a somatic mutation in the G-NAC gene in the affected skin. PPV type 2 is shown by our super-pale enemic zombie character, holding a roast-to-swan wrapped in foil. Recall that the zombie is our hook for neavus enemicus, while the port wine should remind you of PWS, and the Mongolian beef and broccoli dish represents Mongolian spots. PPV type 3 is shown by the jerk, I mean the other costume copy in zombie, with his three heart shirt, and holding his neavus spy-less speckled chocolate cake, and port wine. The recurrent four flag over the refreshment table is where we'll show the features of PPV type 4. The flag has a neavus spy-less speckled chocolate cake on it, the imperial port wine, yeah, that's the name for a six-liter bottle. It's to remind you of a port wine stain. Mongolian beef and broccoli is to represent Mongolian spots, and the zombie decorations represent neavus enemicus. Don't forget the PPV types 2 through 4, don't have to have neavus enemicus to meet the criteria for the disorder. The last type of PPV type 5 is represented by a pirate matey with the maraca hand and fishnet stockings. The stockings are to remind you of cutest marmorada, to land geectasia, congenita, and her Mongolian beef and broccoli are for Mongolian spots. The mad scientist trying to get her attention is to represent the extracutaneous symptoms of the PPV disorders. His large brain hat, both bionic arms and red goggles are to remind you of the neurologic musculoskeletal and ocular findings, respectively. The next portion of the sketch is dedicated to the costume contest winners covering Fakoma Tosa's Pigmento Caratodica, as written as feco, phantom, king, and queen on the stage. Don't forget the eponym Shimu penning syndrome representing the Shim, or ghost. Sandy from Greece with her yellow blonde Greece the pair is to remind you of neavus sebaceus. In PPK, a neavus spilus occurs in conjunction with a neavus sebaceus caused by post-cygotic mutation in the atras gene. Atras is represented by her sign saying don't harass next to the famous costume winners. It's important to remember that adnexal neoplasms often arise in neavus sebaceus. The three prong comb and Sandy's hair is to remind you of trichoblastoma, which is the number one lesion that arises within them. Her super potent awesome pusepray, spat for short, is to represent syringo-sista denoma papalifram, which is another benign neoplasm that can arise within the neavus sebaceus. Lastly, basal cell carcinomas can also arise within them and is represented by a clam with a pearl drawn on the front of the stage. Our next character is dany from Greece, our facofantum king, and he will represent the systemic manifestations of PPK. His bowed out legs should remind you of hypophosphatemic vitamin D resistant rickets that can develop in PPK, and his profuse nervous sweat and should remind you of hyperhydrosis, which is another systemic symptom. That caesor salad he's enjoying is our recurrent hook for seizures, which can cause some serious grease slighting. Alright guys, I'll catch you next time.
