TRANSCRIPT: Phototoxicity and Photoallergy
============================================================

How hot is this sketch? Oh, it is HOO hot! Hello and welcome back. In today's sketch at the HOO Hot Mongolian Grill, we will be covering a topic that is almost too hot to handle. Phototoxic drug eruptions. Man, I'm burning up over here. Let's just go ahead and get started. Phototoxicity is characterized by an exaggerated sunburned like reaction, usually caused by medications, and the list of possible culprits is just staggering. So we've only selected the most high yield, those that our users have reported as being tested in question banks, and a few that are used frequently in dermatology. So what is a phototoxic reaction? It's a phenomenon caused by direct cellular injury following UV-induced activation of a phototoxic agent, and we chose this sketch to take place at HOO Hot Grill, not just because it's super cool. It is by the way. But also because these reactions are hot like a sunburn. And HOO Hot doesn't have mediocre food, nah, it has a plus food, as shown by the sign on the wall. This should remind you that UVA radiation is most responsible for the creation of free radicals, which lead to damage and resultant toxicity. Now, let's get into the drugs that are the common culprits. Choo-ching! HOO Hot Grill is coming in hot with the lunch specials today. Check out that cash register, all open and ready for business. This cash register, or the tax machine, as we call it at Dermnomonix, should remind you of the taxains. The taxaing group of chemotherapy drugs, such as DOS-A-Taxle and PAC-L-Taxle, are common culprits for phototoxic eruptions. Other camp myths common drug class that we use all the time in dermatology and must-know for life and the boards are tetracyclins. As shown by this tetracycline bicycle, which you can't miss because it's inside the restaurant. I mean, really, come on, dude. You can park it out front. This is a fancy establishment. Anyways, since tetracyclins are a very common cause of phototoxicity and high yield for the exams, we should go into a little more detail. Importantly, Dometkla Cyclin, which is almost never used, is the most phototoxic of the group, which is followed by doxycycline, then tetracycline, and minocycline, which is the least phototoxic. So if you ever have an acne patient who's getting super brutal sunburns on doxycycline, you can consider switching them to minocycline since it's the least phototoxic. Other drug class to be aware of are fluoroquinolones, as shown by our lovely fluoroquinolone flower, which is given this restaurant that elegant vibe. Oh, oh, oh, our chef is firing up the grill. Oh, man, I hope he makes that onion volcano. That is my favorite. Check out his high octane tank that he's using to pour the oil on the grill. That is going to be a big flame. If you've been watching our sketches, you may recognize our high octane gas tank as a hook for acutane. Recall that isotretinoin and other retinoids are major photosensitizers in dermatology, so make sure to always counsel your patients to put on sunscreen. Now even though it's not exclusively shown in this sketch, for some reason I always just lump sorulones and retinoids together in my mind, and now hopefully it will live rent-free in your head as well, and you'll remember that, like retinoids, sorulins are common causes of phototoxic reactions. Well, it ain't a Mongolian grill without some dap-zone dim sum. Recall that dap-zone may also cause phototoxic eruptions. It's a rare side effect, but worth mentioning since it's frequently prescribed by dermatologists. I don't know about you, but I am ready for those juicy chicken thighs and mushrooms that our Mongolian chef is dicing up and twirling around as he's going crazy over there with that spatula. Man, he's spinning it so fast that it's almost spinning into a vortex. Recall from our SCLE sketch that juicy chicken thighs should remind you of thiazide diuretics as a common culprit, and usually one of the first drugs that you can point to in most drug reactions since so many patients are on these medications for hypertension. The mushrooms are a recurrent hook for cyclosporine, and the spatula vortex should remind you of oraconisol. It's also worth noting that many of the drugs that are photosensitizers can also increase the risk of developing skin cancer, so for the test and your high risk transplant patients, you have to be on the lookout for patients on voraconisol. Oh, a quick sidebar. When we say phototoxic reaction, this is an umbrella term, and in many cases, the morphology of the primary lesions results in us giving the reaction a different diagnosis. For example, when Bola and vesicles form, we call it pseudo-porphyria. But as a pragmatist, I recommend that you should just assume that if a question is asking about pseudo-porphyria, you can simply look for one of these drugs that causes phototoxicity. Along the same train of thought, if your patient has true porphyria, these are also the same drugs that can worsen their disease. Despite being less common, pseudo-porphyria is a board favorite and is frequently caused by NSAIDs. To remind you of this, we've placed our NSAID sad face on the out of order sign on the bathroom door of our restaurant, and it looks like it's the women's restroom this specifically out of order. The women's sign should remind you that estrogens may also be photosensitizers. Hey, kid, this isn't playtime, it's dinnertime. Man, if he isn't careful with that drone, it is going straight into the Hu-Hot Fire Pit. I can tell his older brother isn't happy with his shenanigans. I mean, look at him. He's furious. These kids drone should remind you of amiodarone, and his furious older brother should remind you of ferozomide. Recall that amiodarone is a common culprit for phototoxic eruptions and may also cause a slate-gray hyperpigmentation, kind of like the color of his drone propellers. Ferozomide is another to remember just because so many patients take it. Speaking of common medications, metformin is another to commit to memory as a phototox occasion. Let's check out this guy, Mop in the Floor. You could call him the Mop Floorman, or the Met Formin in the Dermnomonics World, and we'll be using a Mop as a recurrent hook for future sketches. Man, he is really cleaning up the place, and Hu-Hot doesn't only have A-plus food, it's got A-plus food inspector ratings, because he's mopping up with this Chlor-1 brand cleaner. This Chlor-1 cleaner should remind you of photosensitizers Chlor-thaladone, as well as the phenothiozines, such as Chlor-Promazine, and Prochlor-Persine. Recall that Chlor-thaladone is a thiozide diuretic, though less commonly used. Remember, if you don't ask about over-the-counter medications, the patient often won't think to disclose them. So when evaluating a patient with a suspected phototoxic eruption, it's not only important to go over their prescription medication list. You must also talk about herbal supplements. For phototoxic reactions, St. John's War is especially important to ask about because it's an herbal medication that is commonly used to treat a variety of ailments, including depression, menopausal symptoms, ADHD, and many other common ailments. However, this herb contains hyperazine, which is a phototoxic agent that may be the cause of a phototoxic eruption. To remind you of St. John's War, we've placed a rosary around the angry older brother's neck. Yeah, he should really work on practicing what he preaches. Well, that about covers all the hot hooks at Hu-Hot. Now, let's burn through the high points one last time. This sketch takes place at Hu-Hot Grill because phototoxic reactions typically present as a sunburn-like reaction. The A-plus food sign should remind you that UVA is most responsible for the creation of free radicals, which lead to damage and resultant toxicity. Now, let's quickly burn through the common medications that cause these types of reaction. Recall our tax and tax machine to remind you that tax and medications often cause a phototoxic reaction. Another camp-miss common drug class that we use all the time in dermatology and a must-know for life in the boards are the tetracyclins, as shown by this tetracycline bicycle which you can't miss inside the restaurant. Furthermore, recall our fluoroquinolone flowers to remind you of fluoroquinolone antibiotics as another common culprit. The high octane tank that our chef is cooking with should remind you of isotretinone and other retinoids being major photosensitizers. Our Dapsone, Dimson, Chicken Thies and Mushrooms that the chef is cooking up should remind you of Dapsone, Thaisi diuretics and cyclosporine respectively. The spatula and a vortex being twirled by our chef should remind you of voreconosol. Recall that pseudo-porphyria is a board-favor and is frequently caused by NSAIDs as shown by our NSAIDs' sad face on the women's restroom. Furthermore, recall the estrogen may also be photosensitizers. The furious brother with his younger sibling playing with his drone should remind you of ferozomide and amiodarone respectively. All the amiodarone often causes a slate-gray hyperpigmentation as shown by the slate-gray propellers of the drone. Metformin is another drug to recognize as shown by our janitor, aka mop-flormin. This chlorone cleaner should remind you of photosensitizers chlorhthalodone as well as the phenothyzenes such as chloropromazine and pro-chloroparazine. Recall that chlorhthalodone is a thizide diuretic, though less commonly used. And don't forget that herbal supplements may be culprits for phototoxic eruptions as well. To remind you of St. John's Wart, we've placed a rosary around the angry older brother's neck. Well, I think I've been at Hu-Hot for way too long. Basically burned myself out. I'm going to go cool down. I'll see you next time.
