TRANSCRIPT: Pityriasis Rosea
============================================================

America is great. I'd say Rosie. Probably not the Rosieist, but really, really fantastic. This sketch, titled America's Rosie Press Release, will take place at the opening remarks of this familiar looking politician and will cover the basics of Heteriasis Rosia. PR for short. PR is in the Papua Scuamus family's skin disorders, which also includes diseases such as psoriasis, subarachidermatitis, pyrolysis-roversed pylores, granular paracarytosis, and the mythical paraceriasis, among many others. Like the name implies, Papua Scuamus disorders are both popular and squamous, meaning the members of this family are characterized by scale and thickening, with variable amounts of inflammation and keratinocyte proliferation. Let's get started by introducing our politician at the podium, giving his press release. This will be our hook for Pyrolysis-roziya, while all of the Papua Scuamus disorders share similar clinical features, the underlying ideologies and prognosis vary greatly. Currently, it's thought that the eruption of Pyrolysis-roziya is linked to viral infection, specifically HV7 and HV6, and just like HV arise before the eruption of Pyrolysis-roziya, this HUM-V arrives before our politician, and to help you remember that it's specifically HV7 and HV6. We'll draw this guard next to the HUM-V, ready to take action with our recurring 7 boomerang and carrying the recurring 6 golf club figures, giving one speech means you get to go off and golf the rest of the day. Politicians. While HV7 and HV6 are probably the most common ideologies, the eruption of Pyrolysis-roziya can also be triggered by several medications. We'll cover the most common of these on the right side of the sketch, and we've included our quote unquote, drugs, as compensated drugs in paraphernalia, to remind you that these are drugs that induce PR. The most common drugs that induce PR are ACE inhibitors. If you recall from our sketch with Bulls Pimphagoid titled Grandpa's Big Party, we'll use a classic ACE Ventura-esque Hawaiian shirt to remind you of ACE inhibitors, just like this inspiring observers wearing. Say, doesn't it look familiar? If he doesn't, you need to go watch one of the greatest common movies of the 90s. But for now, sit back and get ready to hear about all the great things that have been accomplished. Great hair. He's got great hair, doesn't he? Not as good as mine. They're really, really good. Fantastic. You know what else is great? All the gold we acquired. It's enough to build a gold tower. The best tower. Probably the best tower. In addition to ACE inhibitors, gold was a common cause, but now it's more of a historic treatment. One that might still show up on the test. Beta blockers, however, are as common as fake news, and they can also trigger PR. Our current symbol for beta blockers is a beta bottle of sunblock, like the one ACE is holding. He's a pretty smart man, he doesn't want to end up with a funny orange tan. Medications less commonly associated, but still commonly prescribed include barbituates, isotretinone, and metronautosol. We'll show this first by adding in the wall. More like a fence with barbed wire for barbituates. So it's a very powerful, very powerful wall. The likes of which probably, to this extent, has never been built before. Our current symbol for metronautosol is a metro or train, which fits perfectly here on the right. Isotretinone is in a common cause, but because it's relatively commonly prescribed in the dermatologic population, it's worth remembering. And we've included our high octane isotretinone fuel, over by the humvee. You may have noticed that this scene looks a little bit chilly, and that's because it takes place around Christmas time. And how could you have a Christmas time press release without a tree? This Christmas tree should remind you of the Christmas tree distribution of papules and plaques, which favor the trunk. Typically the vertical axis of each lesion is oriented along Langer's lines. This rash is often preceded by a single larger plaque known as a herald patch. To signify this, we've included an angel tree topper because just like this large lesion heralds, the onset of PR, the angel heralds the birth of 8 p.m., 6 p.m., newborn infant Jesus, not even a word yet. Just a little infant, so cuddly. It's still omnipotent. Look, I know Christmas isn't universally celebrated, but I like Christmas the best when I'm narrating. When you narrate, you can narrate for Quanza or Hanukkah or Dewali. On a side note, Quanzas of Holiday celebrating African culture. While we didn't show it in our sketch, you should know that an African American children, PR is often more popular and more extensive. Another classic description used when describing PR is trailing color red of scale. We'll show this with a skirt around the tree. Can you see how there's a red almost inflammatory border and how there's snow on the skirt trailing this border? This should serve as a simple reminder of the trailing scale. The eruption of PR can be quite impressive and often very alarming for parents, but it's typically asymptomatic or mildly paritic and results spontaneously over six to eight weeks. For most cases, symptomatic treatment with antiparidics and or topical steroids is usually sufficient. So let's add a hydrocooler water bottle by our politician, a termite of topical steroids. However, if you're asked for a medication that can hasten clearance, or Rithramisin is the drug of choice. We've chosen to use a picture of the Earth for Rithramisin and we'll add it to the podium, but to make sure that you remember its treatment, not a cause, we'll put two more on the humvee on the left hand side of the sketch. Let's wrap up the sketch with a quick review. Pitorisus rosia, shown by our politicians press release, is a fabulous claimous disorder thought to be related to HHV7 or 6. Our humvee and guard holding seven bimmering and six golf club. However, it can be caused by several medications which are shown on the right hand side of the sketch with the drugs and paraphernalia. The most notable cause is ACE inhibitors, the ACE Ventura character. Others to know however are beta blockers and gold, the beta blocker bottle and the tower of gold bars. Let's come on causes but still call on prescriptions, our isotretinoin, metronidazole and barbituids. The high octane, acutane fuel, metronidazole metro and barbed wire barbituid fence. Clinically, PR often starts with a large patch called a heral patch or a heralding angel and it's followed by a widespread eruption which favors the trunk, often being described as a Christmas tree distribution. Remember the Christmas tree? Each individual lesion has a choleraid of trailing scale like the choleraid of snow trailing the tree's skirt. Treatment is just supportive, usually resolving around topical steroids as needed for itching. But if you're asked what medication could hasten resolution, pick Arithromisin. Remember the hydrocooler water bottle for the topical steroids and the earth drawings on the podium and the humvee for Arithromisin. Alright, I have enjoyed that because it was probably fantastic, maybe the best. So my politician impressions probably not the best but I'll work on it and we'll catch you next time.
