TRANSCRIPT: PLEVA
============================================================

Wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee wee Uh oh, you better watch out. Here come the pleva police. That's alright, this sketch takes place in the pleva PD, where we'll be discussing the DP of pleva. In other words, we'll be covering the Dermado pathology of pitoriasis like anoides at veriola formus acuda. For the purpose of a sketch, we're not going to split pitoriasis like anoides at veriola formus acuda and pitoriasis like anoides chronica. Instead, just think of these as the same disorders with pleva having the same features just exaggerated. As recognized from low power, pleva appears as an interface dermatitis having a dense band of lymphocytic inflammation at the dermal epidermal junction. Like previous sketches with like anoid inflammation, we'll include a lime green band of paint on the wall and a pink shagrug on the ground to remind you of the ragged basement membrane and interface changes that you'll expect to see. When these changes are more severe and lead to a bubble-like appearance along the DEJ, we call it vacuolar change. To signify that pleva may have a predominant vacuolar interface, we'll include this vacuum here on the right. Oh no, someone better call a fire department, because that vacuum is on fire. This is just an extra reminder that the inflammation is often intense in pleva, though maybe subtle in PLC. In addition to the general band of inflammation, recall that pleva clinically presents as discrete papules, and because of this, the inflammation is often heavier towards the center of the lesion, unless at the edges given a wedge-shaped infiltrate. Not unlike this wedge-shaped crime statistic showing the decrease in crime. Remember that these cells are cytotoxic lymphocytes, and while not explicitly shown, they're often monoclonal. We'll remind you that they're cytotoxic lymphocytes, with our cytotoxic hazmat guy reading the crime statistic. Now if you're already familiar with pleva and PLC, oof, you're probably about to lose your mind, because we haven't even mentioned the differential known as a lymph in every hole. If you've never heard of this one, I pity you. The saying a lymph in every hole refers to lymphocyte exocytosis out of proportion with the degree of spungiosis. Recall that in spungiotic dermatitis, some lymphocytes are expected to be in the epidermis, but in a few select diseases, every vacuole or opening in the epidermis will appear to have a little dark lymphocyte just hanging out inside. A.K.A. a lymph in every hole. This can be a useful feature to help you narrow the differential, and pleva PLC is on that differential. So, let's add an eccentric and brilliant detective here at the desk. Yeah, you know he's brilliant because of that Sherlock Holmes look and hat that he's wearing, but disregard him shoving this whole line in his pie hole. I really hope that this is some type of experiment, because if not, I am really going to have to reconsider where my tax dollars go. Whenever you see a character on naturally shoving a whole line in their mouth, it's because they're on the lymph in every hole differential. While this is helpful, it's not diagnostic, but another feature to look for and one that I find particularly helpful is the presence of extravizated red blood cells in the dermis and sometimes the epidermis. So remember that Sherlock here is spilled as red drink everywhere. Well, Halleasey is trying to clean it up with a sponge. This sponge is a reminder that dermal edema and spongiosis is expected, and while some exocytosis is acceptable with any spongiosis, it's the degree that puts pleva on the lymph in every hole differential. Additionally, I want you to use the blood-esque red drink and erosions on the desk to remind yourself that ulceration can be seen histologically and corresponds clinically to the crusted and eroded papules on the exam. Lastly, the presence of paracarotosis is often a useful feature, and what don't you know it? Our detective is an avid skydiver, and he wants everyone to know it because he has this picture of him rocking his paracarotosis parachute on his desk. Now before we wrap up, let's cover some of the basic treatment options for pleva, which we'll show in the back, starting with an erytheromycin earth. Yeah, despite being a small PD, these guys track crime all over the globe. Other common choices include tetracycline and even phototherapy, which are shown by the tetracycline police cycle and custom high wattage phototherapy spotlight. Well, these guys are clearly very busy, so let's wrap it up and review the hooks. This sketch takes place in the pleva PD and covers the histologic features of pleva PLC. From low power, you should recognize a band-like or wedge-shaped silhouette of lymphocytic inflammation, aka a lichenoid reaction pattern. That's shown by the lime green band on the walls and wedge-shaped crime statistic that our cytotoxic hazmat guy is reading. When the inflammation is brisk, you get basement membrane vacuolization, known as the vacuolar interface, hence the vacuum on fire. With the inflammation comes a dima, which we interpret as spongiosis, and while some lymphs in the epidermis could be expected, pleva PLC will have a disproportionate amount given at the appearance of a lymph in every hole. So, remember that our detective is stuffing a whole lime in his mouth and the sponge that he has on his desk. He's using that sponge to clean up the red drink that he spilled, which is a reminder that red blood cell extravization is a common and helpful feature. Additionally, the picture of Sherlock parachute is a reminder to look for paracarotosis. In the back, the map of Earth represents a Rithramisin, which is a common treatment choice, but other treatments include tetracycline and phototherapy, as shown by the tetracycline cycle, and phototherapy spotlight. Hey, thanks for tuning in to support us. It really means a lot. But don't forget to send us any feedback that you might have and requests that you might want to see. I'll catch you next time.
