TRANSCRIPT: POEMS Syndrome
============================================================

Alright, so picture this. It's Friday night and you're a student at a small, hipster, liberal arts college. You're surrounded by aspiring actors and musicians and talented snobby people all day long. So you're just long and for a creative outlet to release all your built-up stress. On your apartment door is a flyer for a slam poetry night at this local coffee lounge. You've been secretly into writing poems, so maybe this is your chance to showcase your work. Alright, let's throw on a pair of chunky black boots, grab a triple espresso latte and let's head on down to Poem's slam poetry lounge here at Dermnomonix. In today's sketch, we will be covering the clinical features and treatment for Poem's syndrome. Now let's get started. Poems is also known as Crowfucase syndrome and is a rare monoclonal plasma cell proliferative disorder with associated sensory motor polynoropathy. Poems is an acronym for polynoropathy, organomegly, endocrinopathy, m-protein and skin changes. Well, well, well. If it isn't our first poet, get ready to recite his powerful high-coup. This guy definitely fits in a slam poetry lounge with his dark, black clothing and long beard. This guy also fits with the cutaneous findings of patients with Poem's syndrome. These patients often present with hyperpigmentation, hence dark clothing and hyperchircosis, hence that grungy hipster beard. And what's a hipster without some statement combat boots? But, uh, I think he needs a size down because those are quite... Ademitus? These large, ademitus black boots are to remind you that patients with Poems syndrome often have extra vascular volume overload, causing peripheral edema, pleural effusions and ascites. We'll also scatter some of our recurrent edema edemame on the stage to give our poet some... Uh, good luck? Yeah, definitely think he's a noobie. His nervous fidgeting has caused him to get the microphone cord all twisted and tangled. Is it just me or is that quite the resemblance of a glomerulus loop? These tangled microphone wires are to remind you that Poems can present with glomeruloid hemangiomas on the trunk and proximal extremities. Recall that glomeruloid hemangiomas are pathonomonic for Poems syndrome, and that they resemble a renal glomerulus on pathology. I mean, this guy definitely shouldn't be nervous. Take a look at that sclerodermoid shield on the podium. It shielded him from all of the haters. This shield is our recurrent hook for sclerodermoid changes, and in this case, it's termined of the sclerodermoid skin thickening caused by Poems. I mean, I know this place is supposed to look grungy, but those exposed electrical outlets and frayed wires? Oh, they do not look safe. Maybe I've been watching a little too much germamonics, but those electrical cords sticking out kind of resemble Neuron. These Neuron looking cords should serve as a hook to remind you that patients with Poems syndrome also often present with polyneuropathy, which can be both motor and sensory. Well, even if his poetry doesn't seem to be going well, at least he's got a giant guitar for backup to entertain the audience. Now I don't know about you, but that guitar seems a little bit liver-shaped, doesn't it? And not just any liver, but a large liver. This large liver guitar should remind you that these patients may also present with organomethally, most commonly, hepatosplenomegly. And as an added reminder, we'll also add some super cool bean bag chairs in the audience that resemble splines for splenomegly. Whoa, look at this guy. He's totally rocking his super cool goth skeleton t-shirt. He's even got bones for arms. Now, correct me if I'm wrong, but this is the prototypical guy I picture hanging out at a slam poetry lounge. This guy's skeleton shirt should remind you of the osteoschlorotic myeloma and sclerotic bone lesions that are one of the major criteria for diagnosed in Poems syndrome. Now, not just when I thought this place couldn't get any more eccentric, it looks like someone dropped this oddly scrotum-shaped coin purse. Well, at least our poet might be able to get some tip money out of it. This scrotum purse is our recurrent hook for hypogonadism, which is also a feature of Poems syndrome. However, you should know that there are other endocrinopathy's affecting the adrenals, pituitary and parathyroid may occur as well. Well, on that note, let's take a gander at the snack bar. Our poet may want to eat his feelings out after his performance. Oh my, what a variety! We've got some M&M cookies, apples and veggies, if you're health conscious and whatnot. Those tasty M&M cookies are a recurrent hook for plasma cells. This is to remind you that Poems syndrome is always associated with plasma cell discrasia. Recall that the M in Poems syndrome stands for monoclonal gameopathy, specifically IGG and IgA light chains. The boards love to test that IgA gameopathy's are most commonly associated, hence the IgA apples that we've placed next to our M&Ms. The other healthier snack alternative is to remind you of Veg F Veggies. Just a little bonus hook because you might be expected to know that there's an increase in circulated levels of Veg F with Poems. Another important association with Poems syndrome that you must recognize for the boards is Castleman syndrome. So, we've placed this super cool castle painting in the corner to remind you. I mean, we did say that this is a liberal art school, so some paintings must be expected. All right, so talking about all this food really made me hungry. Let's hit the high points and wrap up the sketch. Recall that Poems is an acronym for polynoropathy, organomethally, endocrinopathy, m protein, and skin changes. Our poet with his dark clothing, long beard, and edemidus black combat boots was surrounding edemame should remind you that these patients present with hyperpigmentation, hypertricosis, and peripheral edema, respectively. The tangled glomerulus look in microphone cord should remind you of glomeruloid homangiomas, which are pathonomonic for Poems syndrome. These patients often also present with sclerodermoid features as shown by a recurrent sclerodermashealed on the podium. Sensory and motor polynoropathy are also important features to recognize in Poems syndrome, as shown by a neuron look in electrical cords. The enlarged liver guitar on the stage and spleen bean bag chairs should serve as a hook to remind you that these patients also have organomethally. The goth guy in the skeleton t-shirt should remind you that these patients may present with osteoschlorodermyloomas, and the scrotum coin purse on the ground should remind you of hypogonatism. It's important to recognize that Poems syndrome is always associated with plasma cell discrasias, this is shown by the M&M plasma cell cookies at the snack bar. These patients often present with IgG and IgA light chain game opathies. Remember IgA in particular with our IgA apples. The healthy veggies at the snack bar serve as a hook for increased veg F levels in Poems patients. Lastly, the castle painting on the wall should remind you that Poems is also associated with Castleman's disease. Well, that's all I got for you today. I'll close this sketch with a little poem. Roses are red, violets are blue, Poems syndrome is cool, and I hope you learned something new. See you next time.
