TRANSCRIPT: Porphyrias - PCT, HEP, CEP and EPP
============================================================

Okay, glass. Today's lesson will pertain to the synthesis of heme. Heme, the iron containing molecule of hemoglobin, is synthesized, which we call heme synthesis, in living cells by a complex yet fascinating pathway. Defects in this pathway result in a family of diseases known as porphyrias. Porphyria. More like borphyria. Now, let's walk through the eight simple steps of this pathway. I'm joking. Here at Dermnomonics, we think it should be more fun than that. So let us teach you two, or even three, A-A. Things about heme over dinner in this sketch titled Past the Heme, Porphyvor. Note that it will be important to know whether reactions occur in the mitochondria versus cytoplasm. So just remember that all of the porphyrias shown on the left edge of the table over to the right will occur in the cytosol, while a rhithropoetic porphyria is the only one we'll show to the left of the table and occurs in the mitochondria. You should also know that amino-leviolinic acid synthetase is the rate limit in enzyme, and that porphyria-cutaneous tarda is the only subtype shown in this sketch that predominantly presents in adulthood. For the purpose of this sketch, we'll focus on the subtypes of porphyria with the most notable cutaneous findings, specifically porphyria-cutaneous tarda, hepata-erithropoetic porphyria, congenital erythropoetic porphyria, and erythropoetic porphyria. There are kind of a big deal. Speaking of a big deal, check out that table. I bet it smells of rich mahogany. And the cool guy sitting on the left is Captain Urodidas, who will represent porphyria-cutaneous tarda or PCT. He's rocking a tight, leonitis-like beard and a captain's hat to signify he's the captain of the family. The captain's hat will be our recurrent hook anytime we want to remind you of porphyria-cutaneous tarda or its features. Furthermore, can you see his cool captain's pin? This pin made in the shape of a U with rods on the side is to remind you that the defect in PCT is Euro-Porfernogen decarboxylis or Urod. To reinforce this, we'll add the additional hook of his coffin behind him. Now this porphyria must be a little dyslexic. His title plate says PCT Urod, instead of Captain. Notably, PCT can be familial or acquired. This family portrait in the background should remind you that it can be inherited. The portrait may just look like some floating clothes, but that's because vampires don't show up on film. Duh. Ultimately, the acquired form is most common, but all forms are usually due to decreased or dysfunctional Urod enzyme activity. And PCT is the most common type of porphyria overall, which is why we've drawn Captain Urod, with a number one foam finger on his hand. Clinically, PCT is embodied by Urod, the first thing you'll probably notice is Urod, bad, ass, leonitis beard. We want you to associate anyone with over-the-top body and facial hair in this sketch with hyper-tricosis, and Urod, is no exception, with his impressive face sweater and the gorilla arms. Next, you will see that Urod is his carbonated dinner beverage, is bubbling over, and covering the backs of his hands with bubbles and speckles of frothy blood. There's also a spilled salt shaker scattering white flecks of salt. These are to remind you of hemorrhagic vesicles and bula in conjunction with milieu, respectively. You should burn an image of this into your mind, because it's classically used as coda crome for porphyria. Oh, and side note, coda crome by Paul Simon is one of my all-time favorite songs, so do yourself a favor and go listen to it. Alright, back to it. Additional signs include scarring, skin fragility, and hyperpigmentation, evident just by the shape of Urod, this is beautiful olive skin and war scarred body. Now, let's talk about the triggers for the acquired form of PCT, which will show behind Urod, by his coffin. Notably, a myriad of conditions which affect the liver can herald the onset of PCT. Now to remind you of this, we've given Urodedus a whopping serving of liver on his plate for dinner, as well as a liver-shaped pool of sweat on the ground. Specifically, this includes but is not limited to hepatitis, iron overload, and hemochromatosis, HIV, elevated estrogen, and alcohol abuse. These hooks are represented by a recurrent hepatitis hippo here on the wall. The big iron dumbbells on the ground, the recurrent AIDS first aid bag, the wall art of a Greek fertility symbol by the weights for high estrogen, and the sangria alcohol bottle next to him, respectively. Now for the boards, you should also know that the plasma of patients with PCT has peak fluorescence at 620 nanometers. I know, this is a bit ridiculous, but you're gonna need to know it. So, notice the cool glow and bottle of sangria next to Urodedus, well it has a label which reads 620 AD. Oh, fun fact, sangria literally means bloodletting in Spanish and Portuguese. Now, I do want to apologize for breaking from the typical hooks, but this sketch is going to be very busy, and I trust that you dermed them on the X-can remember all of it. This sangria bottle should serve to remind you of three things. Alcohol abuse can trigger PCT, if someone with PCT is exposed to 620 nanometers wavelength of light that pours for ins in the blood fluoresce, and that phlebotomy or bloodletting is the primary treatment for PCT. The treatment of PCT revolves primarily around avoidance of the triggers, but there are a few other treatments that you can try. Phlebotomy is probably the most important, so just recall that sangria literally means bloodletting, but you can also try Lodos hydroxychloroquine or Diferous Sirox. We'll show these with this intricate fountain of Asyron for Diferous Sirox, holding what appears to be our recurrent hydroxychloroquine Hydra. Now, you may be wondering why we chose a basement. First of all, it's because all forms of porphyria are photo-exacerbated, and you should remember that photo-protection is the most important aspect in managing their skin. But we also chose a basement with the doorway going upstairs to make you think of a basement membrane. Test writers like to go after porphyria by showing you histology slides, so we thought this might be a good way to cover the key features. First, you'll notice some tattered drapes that appear to be festooning attached to the basement ceiling. This is to remind you of the festooning dermal papula, seen in the histology of prototypic porphyria, and what are those gross, glowing worms crawling all over them? Well, if you said caterpillars, then you have a good eye. These glowing caterpillars signify the classic finding of caterpillar bodies, which are simply remnants of the basement membrane and degrading keratinocytes, and the slime trail that they're leaving behind and the slime on these pipes on the wall is to remind you of the linear deposition of C3 IgG, IgM, and Fibrinogen along the basement membrane zone and around the dermal blood vessels. Lastly, PCT is another condition seen on the cell por differential, so we've included these people por line of empty chairs by the doorway. I know that seems like a lot, but you need to know the most about PCT and the next characters in the sketch should be easier. Meet Sir Hepato of Ayrthropo, or Sir Hep, who will represent Hepato-Arythropoetic Porphyria, or HEP for short. He is small and somewhat childish, in order to remind you that this form occurs in childhood, and we've placed him next to a erotidus wearing a erotidus, he's like a little ugly erotidus. He's positioned here and wearing the same erotidus captins pin, in order to remind you that HEP is also due to mutations in erotidus, but unlike PCT, it's homozygous mutations which accounts for the more severe clinical manifestations of HEP. Now, I think this guy fancies himself a knight. After all, why also would he demand being called Sir Hep, and what would a knight be without a shield? Now, you may recall from our previous sketches that the shield is a recurrent hook for sclerodermoid changes, which is a classic feature of HEP, and so we'll add a shield on the ground next to Sir Hep. Other clinical features of HEP closely resemble PCT, including Milya, vesicles, Bola, erotians, ulcers, and hypertracosis. So we've drawn him with an excessive amount of body hair and reaching over towards erotidus for his overflowing glass of bubbly, with bubbles and salt getting all over his hands. Unlike PCT, the amount of photosensitivity associated with HEP is so severe that it can lead to full-on mutilation. And this is why we've drawn him to resemble Nasvaratu from the old school vampire movies. Our next porphyria will be represented by this very European-looking vampire at the right end of the table. We'll call him Gunther, the Red Tooth's Euro Gunner, and he represents Gunther's disease, also known as congenital erythropoetic porphyria, or CEP for short. Much like erotidus, Gunther's name holds a lot of meaning. First, Gunther should remind you that this is Gunther's disease, while the Red Tooth Euro Gunner is to remind you that your Rhythrodoncha, or Red Tooth, is a classic Codochrome, and he's European because the mutation that causes CEP is Euro-Porphyrenogen synthetase 3, or U-R-O-S3, which I like to just pronounce as Euro-S3. To reinforce this, let's draw a pile of Euros on the table next to him, with our recurring three heart tattooed on his arm. You can also see that Gunther's sangria is given off a strange glow, much like his family members. We can also indicate that porphyrens are also visible in the RBCs and plasma. Another classic feature of CEP is a red-staining in the urine, beginning in infancy. In terms of this clinical pearl, we've drawn him wearing some very European shorts with red-staining. While not explicitly shown, it may show up on the boards that the porphyrens causing the red urine are apparent even at visible light within the soar band of 400-410 Nm wavelength light. As you see, Gunther won't be winning a beauty page at any time soon, but I guess he could give Sir Hepp a run for his money. You'll notice he's wearing cool red sunglasses over a scarred portion of his face. These hooks represent conjunctivitis and corneal scarring, and like HEP, CEP also has sclerodermatus changes and hyperturcosis, so we've added another sclerodermis shield on his back and drawn him with a bushy beard. While he may have great facial hair, his head looks a little patchy, doesn't it? This is a subtle reminder that patients with CEP get a patchy, scarred alopecia. Additionally, they're prone to terrible mutilation and contractures due to severe scar. So we've drawn him with a large, clawed light contracted fingers and scars all over his arms. This is definitely the type of guy that drives around in a panel van with puppies and candy in the back. Super creepy. Not to mention, why does he have a pile of broken bones and vertebrae on the ground next to him? That's because these patients are prone to pathologic fractures, such as compression fractures. The last and probably most testable cutaneous feature is shown by his teeth which are red with blood. I mean, one, huh. This is a reminder of urethra d'Ansha, which is best seen under Woods lamp and coda crumbs commonly shows up on tests. Unfortunately, those with CEP also have significant systemic issues, including hematologic and gastrointestinal issues. To represent these, notice the overflow and red blood cell shape bowl of blood soup with a crack down the side oozing blood in front of Gunther. This will represent hemolytic anemia and next to the leakin soup is a big piece of spleen to represent spleen omega. A complication of hemolysis is colilithiasis, so notice the gallbladder shaped geode which is sticking up out of the floor. We'll use this hook anytime we want you to think of colilithiasis. Patients with severe hematologic disease have a particularly poor prognosis, but there are treatment options for these patients which will show scattered around Gunther. If there is significant hemolysis and splenomegly, splenectomy is beneficial, but in other patients, treatment options include rapid transfusions for severe anemia, vitamin C or scorbic acid, vitamin E or alpha to coferal, or chalation with deferroxamine. Before we remind you of these treatment options with the knife sticking out of the spleen for splenectomy, Gunther receiving a transfusion, drinking the blood just isn't good enough for him. A delicious kiwi for vitamin C and this furry ox rug for deferroxamine. Note that the edge of the oxkin looks like the letter E for vitamin E. Oh, by the way, fun fact. Even though everyone thinks of oranges as having high vitamin C, kiwis are actually a much better source. Our next and final character is a menotep, the ferro killer. A menotep, spelled with an EPP at the end, is the character that we will use to represent a retro poetic proto-porphyria. And as you can see, he must be from Egypt. The EPP at the end of his name is to remind you that he represents EPP. And the fact that he looks like a pharaoh and his nickname the pharaoh killer is to remind you that EPP is secondary to defects in the enzyme pharochelites. This is the most common type of porphyria seen in children, typically manifesting between one to six years of age. So you'll see that we've drawn him as a child and have him wear in a number one foam finger to remind you of this. On tests, the question stem might mention delayed pain three to thirty minutes after light exposure, which is unique to this form. We'll try to help you remember this by showing him winsen and pain and wearing a bling watch, which looks like a sundial. Now this is because the guy is old school and it's to remind you of sun or UV exposure. Now on his hands, you can see some bling bling. This is to represent the papules that develop on the knuckles of persons affected by EPP. Now try to tell me that that is not a bad ass sarcophagus. The scratch marks across his face are to remind you of shallow, linear pits that can develop on the face. But what's taken out of the scratches? Finger nails. The nails are a small hook for photo on a colisus, which can occur in this type of porphyria. Now let's look at what a minotep is having for supper. Apart from similar names, EPP, just like CEP has increased risk for hemolytic anemia. So we'll give a minotep a big bowl of blood soup in a cracked red blood cell bowl on his dinner tray. However, a unique feature seen in these patients is hyper-troglyceridemia. So we'll also put a stick of butter next to his soup to represent hyper-troglyceridemia. Again, if the patients have hemolytic anemia, they have risk for coli-lethiasis. So we'll include another decorative gallbladder shaped geode next to a minotep. The treatment for EPP is pretty unique, and you should remember that they may benefit from beta-carotene, and some patients may need to live or transplant. This will be shown by a big helping of carrots to help balance out the butter, and what's a pharaoh without at least one conopech jar. In this case, the jar specifically shows the Egyptian god M. Ceti, which in Egyptian mythology was the son of Horus, and is said to protect the liver. Eh, the more you know. You'll also see on the jar the outline of a liver, which of course signifies his jar containing a liver. Hopefully, this is a strong enough hook to remind you of a liver transplant. Now, I know what you're thinking. We didn't even mention which forms have porphorins in the stool or urine, but this isn't high yield, and honestly, this sketch is packed already, guys. Well, I'm sure after meeting all these gnarly vamps, you may have lost your appetite, but before you go, let's wrap up and review the hooks. Porphyria, cutaneous tarda is shown by Captain Urodidis on the left side of the table facing us. This is the most common type of porphyria overall. Recall the number one foam finger, and the acquired form is more common than the familial. He's wearing a captain's hat, which will use any time he wants you to think of PCT. He also has his Urod captains pin to remind you that this is due to defects or mutations in uro porphorinogen decarboxylis, or urod for short. We've also included his coffin with PCT urod in the back for additional reinforcement. The clinical features are shown with the character himself and include hypertricosis, hyperpigmentation, hemorrhagic bula, millia, and scarring. Recall his hairy body and manly beard, the bubbles and salt grains on his hands, and his hyperpigmented olive skin riddled with scars. The associations that can induce or worsen PCT are shown behind him and include iron overload and hemacromatosis, liver disease, high estrogen states, HIV, hepatitis, and alcohol. This is shown by the liver-shaped pool of sweat, iron dumbbells, Greek fertility symbol, AIDS aid bag, hepatitis hippo, and bottle of sangria. The sangria bottle serves several functions. First, it's from 620 AD to remind you that the porphorins and patients plasma florescent are 620 nanometers, but the sangria should also remind you that alcohol is a trigger, and treatment of PCT revolves around phlebotomy, or bloodletting, which is the literal translation of sangria from Spanish to English. Aside from phlebotomy, PCT management revolves largely around photo-protection, which is key for all porphyrias, but you can also use low-dose hydroxychloroquine or defacirox. Remember these by remembering they're in a basement to protect them from the sun and the fountain of a siren and hydrogen for defacirox and hydroxychloroquine. The histologic features are shown with the scenery. Recall that this is on a cell-poor sub-epidermal blister differential, hence the people-poor-rove seats, and has the classic findings of festooning dermal papilla with caterpillar bodies, the festooning drapes and glowing caterpillars. On DIF, you'll see linear IgG, IgM, and C3 deposition at the DEJ and around the vessels. This is shown by the linear goo trails along the drapes and glowing goo dripping from the pipes on the wall. The next character is Sir Heb, who represents hepato-yurithropoetic porphyria. Recall that he's a child and is not sforato-like appearance is meant to remind you of the severe scarring and mutilation that occurs in the sub-type. He's positioned on the same side of the table as Eurodidus because HEP is also due to mutations in Eurod. But in this case, it's homozygous mutations. The clinical manifestations are almost the same as PCT, so the character's portrayed as being very hairy and having the same bowl of bubbles and million salt granules on his hands. The shield on the ground behind him is our recurrent hook for scleroderma-like changes, and this is a feature seen in HEP that is not seen in PCT. Gunther, the red toothed Euro-Gunner, represents Gunther's disease, also known as congenital erythropoetic porphyria, and is positioned on the right. This is due to mutations in UROS3 or Eurodstree, which we've shown with a pile of Euros on the table in front of him and a three-heart tattoo on his arm. This form results in severe mutilation and scarring with contractures of the digits, which is shown by the scars all over his arms and long contracted claw-like fingers. Scarring of the scalp leads to patchy alopecia shown by his patchy bald head. One of the first manifestations is red urine and begins early in childhood, so recall his very European short shorts, which are almost diaper-like and stained red. Gunther also represents the systemic manifestations, including hemolytic anemia, coli-lethiasis, splinomegly, and pathologic fractures. So remember the cracked red cell bowl oozing blood soup, coli-lethiasis geode, large spleen on his plate, and a pile of broken bones and vertebrae all around him. Hematologic disease portends a poor prognosis, but there are some treatments that can help. Namely, splinectomy, transfusions, ascorbic acid, alpha-tocopherol, and deferoxamine collation. These are shown around our character as a knife in the spleen, bag of blood he's receiving as a transfusion, vitamin C, kiwi, and the deferoxamine furiox with an E-shaped into it. A bonus factoid that may show up on boards is that the urine is excitable by visible light in the sore at band from 400 to 410 nanometers wavelength. Last but not least is a menatep deferro-killer, who represents a rhithropoetic proto-porphyria. This is the most common type seen in childhood and is caused by mutations in ferro-kielitis. Recall the mutation by recalling his ferro-outfit and his nickname, the ferro-killer. Have we given this small kid a number one foam finger and placed him in a high chair to remind you that he's the number one cause in children? Clinically, it presents with delayed pain to UV exposure, papula nodules on the dorsal hands, linear pits on the face, and photo-onicalysis. This is shown by him winsing in pain with a cool Egyptian sundial watch for delayed pain to UV exposure, his sweet bling rings to remind you of papula nodules on the dorsal hands, and his sarcophagus with linear scratch marks across the face with nails still sticking out for linear pits and photo-onicalysis. Like CEP, EEP also has risk for hemolytic anemia with subsequent coli-lethiasis, so he's also got a cracked red blood cell bull oozing blood soup and a decorative coli-lethiasis geode. However, these patients are also at risk for hyper-tri glyceridemia, so there's also a plate with butter on it in front of him. Again, these patients may benefit from blood transfusions for anemia, but the two most testable treatments are beta-carotene and liver transplant, which are shown by the plate of beta-carotene carrots to balance out the butter and the canopic jar with a liver on it to remind you of a liver transplant. Alright, I know that video was long, but I'm proud that you made it through it. So, take a break, I'll see you next time.
