TRANSCRIPT: Preservatives and Allergic Contact Dermatitis (ACD)
============================================================

Hey and welcome back. Today we'll be discussing the most high yield preservatives that are well known causes of allergic contact dermatitis. We'll be doing it in this sketch which depicts a foggy, londonite in his title Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Firmoudahyd. Preservatives are widely used in various products, from clothing to personal care to cosmetic products and it's used to prevent spoilage. Because of this, it's often very challenging to identify the offending agent and even more challenging to counsel the patient on how to avoid products containing it. Notably, many preservatives are Firmoudahyd releasing agents or even Firmoudahyd itself. To help you keep these two categories straight, we'll depict non-firmoudahyd agents on the left hand and back of the sketch, while all preservatives relating to Firmoudahyd will be on the front and right of the sketch. Let's get started by introducing our first and most insidious character, Mr. Firmoudahyd. Now, talk about a character you don't want to come in contact with. We've done our best to portray him in such a way that it's easy to remember that he's Mr. Firmoudahyd. I mean, just look at that stooped posture and the ugly, deformed appearance. You know, I can't really put my finger on exactly what it is. While Firmoudahyd was previously a commonly used preservative in cosmetics, it's been largely replaced in recent years. Now it's more notably found in wrinkle-free clothing, which is the context that the test writer will most likely approach this preservative. To remind you of wrinkle-free clothing, just recall Mr. Firmoudahyd's completely wrinkle-free outfit. It's freshly pressed and clearly overstarched. Also worth noting, for patients who have a positive patch test to Firmoudahyd, you should recommend avoidance of cotton clothing as this has the highest concentrations. To remember this, recall that Mr. Firmoudahyd has stuffed his pockets full of cotton balls. I'm assuming it's the wipe away the tears when people call him pre-human and ugly. You know, I actually kinda feel further, guy. Furthermore, you should know that polyesters contain the least Firmoudahyd of any textile and would be the clothing of choice for someone sensitized to it. To show this, we'll give Mr. Firmoudahyd this polyester easter egg that he's holding out as a gift. I'm assuming so people will like him. Now at least this shoe shiner doesn't look too off put on. I bet he'd give you a nice shine for that egg rather than a quarter. This shoe shine boy with his quarter shoe shine stand is to remind you of Quaternium 15, which is a Firmoudahyd releasing agent found in soaps, shampoos, and moisturizers. Note that this bucket with soapy water and shoe shine equipment are drawn to resemble a bar of soap and a bottle of shampoo. While fragrances are the most common cosmetic related cause of allergic contact dermatitis, Firmoudahyd releasing agents are the second most common. So keep that in mind when a patient reports an allergy to a new cosmetic product. Now while Quaternium is a common Firmoudahyd releaseer, the number one preservative to cause allergic contact dermatitis is actually M.I.D. Diazolidinaluria, which we'll portray with this guy over here urinating on the street. Let's get real for a second. London in the early 1800s? Oh, it was infamously filthy. And this guy, I mean he's probably just trying to blend in. Regardless, we hope the image of a man urinating is enough to remind you of Yuria, specifically M.I.D. Diazolidinaluria. And we'll add this number one foam finger to remind you that this is the number one cause of preservative induced allergic contact dermatitis. Now what else were the 1800s known for? Oh yeah, the golden age of medicine. Alright fine, I'm joking. But it was rampant with miracle remedies and cures, which brings us to the next character selling mercury and thine. Going bald? Just rub it on your scalp and you grow hair. Lost the spark in the bedroom? Well, take three swigs and forget your worries. This snake oil salesman with a cart behind him which reads mercury and thine is to remind you of thymarousol, which is also known as ethyl mercury. Classically, thymarousol is used as a preservative in vaccines. And while it is still occasionally used in this capacity, it's largely been replaced by alternative preservatives. For the test, it still might show up in the form of a vaccine reaction, but more likely, it will show up as a question regarding a reaction to eye drops. So we'll remember vaccines by having our salesman hold a giant vaccine syringe with needle, and we'll add a sign with an eye dropper bottle on it to the right of the cart. Yes, when administered directly to the eye, it can prevent you from the black death. Okay, no. Nothing that this man has claimed is true. But here's a fun fact. Mercury tablets were used to treat syphilis from the 17th to 19th century before the discovery of penicillin. Again, thymarousol and ethyl mercury are different names used for the same preservative, and it's fair game to use either one on a test. However, ethyl mercury is not the exact same as elemental mercury, but they do cross react. So we've added a big old-fashioned mercury thermometer to the wagon to remind you again of mercury and some dried thymed angling from the back as extra visual cues. Lastly, you should know that thymarousol also cross reacts with peroxicam, and hey, wouldn't you know it? This salesman brought a whole cart of peroxicam rocks with him. Yeah, they're what he uses for anesthesia before his procedures. Man, it's great living in 2021. If you'd rather spend your shilling on something else though, why not give it to this young lad selling pasta from his bin? This character holding a bin that is seemingly full of pasta is to remind you of parabens, or as I like to say, pera, bins. Parabens are common in topical medications and antiperspirants, but most notably, they cross react with a number of things which can be remembered with the pneumonic pasta. So note that this kid is also slinging some old-spice deodorant in his right hand and pasta in the left. This makes perfect sense if you ask me. People back then must have smelled like a horse's arse, so how could anyone eat smelling like that? Try to remember that pasta stands for pera amina-salicylic acid, PABA, PPD, Azo Dyes, Sulfonamides, Thiozides, and Anesthetics, specifically Esther Anesthetics. Last but certainly worth knowing is methyl-chlorophyosolinone, also called methyl-isothyosolinone, but I prefer to just say MCI or MI. Multipicked MCI with this mass-casualty incident right out in front of mix. This is the perfect example of why you shouldn't drink and carriage. Note how we've emphasized the MI on the pub sign just in case the imagery of a mass-casualty incident doesn't really stick. MCI is important in dermatology because it's found in so many everyday products that often come recommended by, well, Dr. Google, to help with your everyday problems. This includes things like cleaning your baby, or maybe even yourself, with wet wipes or using usur into moisturize. As a result, allergic contact due to MCI is often in the perianal area and should be suspected in a patient who uses wet wipes. To remind you of this, we'll add a couple hooks because it seems to be a board favorite. First, let's add the slogan, Wet Your Whistle to the Mix sign, but also notice how there's a man cleaning up outside mix and how his wipe is soaking wet. These should help remind you of wet wipes. Oh, oh my. Well, I was just going to put a patch on his pants, but I suppose this will do too. This man's provocative underwear that's showing over the Bud-Aux region is to remind you to think of MI when you see perianal dermatitis. You know, we shouldn't judge. Most people didn't even wear underwear back then. So this guy, well, he's a revolutionary thinker. As mentioned earlier, and worth noting for real life practice, MCI is also seen in a variety of personal care products, including usurine, which we recommend all the time. Consider this in the future when you recommend moisturizers for someone with highly sensitive skin. Okay, let's wrap this up so we can get to the pub for a pint. This scene depicts 19th century London perfectly preserved in time. The central hook is Mr. Firmoudahide, who of course represents Firmoudahide, and he's depicted wearing completely entirely 100% wrinkle-free clothing to remind you that it's commonly found in wrinkle-free clothing. Specifically, cotton has the highest concentrations, hence the cotton balls in his pocket, and polyester has a lows, hence the polyester egg, which he's holding out as a gift. Quaternium 15 is a common Firmoudahide releasing agent found in soaps, shampoos, and moisturizers, and is depicted by the shoe shine stand with a quarter on the side for Quaternium, and the clean and supplies that look like soap, shampoo, etc. Note that fragrance is the most common cause of cosmetic allergic contact overall, but Firmoudahide releasing preservatives are second most common. Among these, Emma Diasel, Lidynol, Yuria is the number one cause, and is shown by a drunk guy urinating on the street and wearing a number one foam finger. Next is Thymaroseal, aka Ethel Mercury, which is shown with our snake oil salesman and his wagon which reads Mercury and Thine. He's holding a giant syringe and needle to remind you that it's used in vaccines, but more testable is the fact that it's also in eye drops, so don't forget the eyedropper bottle advertised on the wagon. Additionally, Thymaroseal cross reacts with both elemental mercury and pyroxocham, so it recalls the mercury thermometer and pyroxocham rocks, I mean anesthetics, on the cart. Parabins are common in topical medications and antiperspirants, but they cross react with the pasta family. This is shown by our lad with his paraben bin holding a stick of old spice antiperspirant and cellin pasta. Cell pasta stands for Para-Amino-Salicylic Acid, PABA, PPD, Azo Dyes, Sulfonamides, Thiazide, and Ester anesthetics such as benzocane. Lastly, methyl-chlorothiozolanone, aka methyl-isofiozolanone, aka MCI, aka M-I. Alright, you get the idea. This is shown with the MCI Mass-Casualty Incident in front of MixPub with the M-I emphasized. This is a common cause of perianal dermatitis due to its presence in wet wipes, so recall our visionary man with his perianal underwear showing and wiping up the mess with his wet wipe. We've also written this slogan, Wet Your Whistle, as an added bonus. Also, recall that MCI is present in Eucerin, which is something to consider when making recommendations to patients with sensitive skin or a known allergy to M-I. Well guys, it's been fun and I really hope this was helpful. As always, send us your feedback and recommendations and don't forget to follow along with the coloring pages and take the quizzes to maximize your knowledge. I'll catch you next time.
