TRANSCRIPT: Pityriasis Rubra Pilaris (PRP)
============================================================

Welcome back. I hope you're ready for a tale of greed and loss, love and despair. A tale about a group of pirates in search of a treasure that they could never have. In this sketch, titled Pretty Ruby's Empirates, we'll be covering the clinical features of PitterRyces Rubra Pilaris, aka PRP. This story begins with a legend about an island that was covered in rubies. Yeah, kinda like that one. Which will be our recurring hook for PRP. Now, recall that in dermatology, PitterRyces simply means fine scale. Rubra refers to the red color, and Pilaris refers to the hair follicle. And PRP is one of the few diseases that truly fits the description. The classic scale is fine, powdery and non-adherent, and has been likened to the brand of wheat. And because of the non-adherent nature, patients may report clouds of dust falling from their skin, despite having minimal scale visible on the surface of the skin. However, while the scale characteristics are useful, I think that the most identifiable features of PRP is the perifalicular red papules that occur due to the retention of keratinocytes around the follicles. Let's remind you of these characteristics with mounds of sand, with wheat-like grass grown from them, meant to resemble the perifalicular papules and the buzzword wheat brand. And the island winds blowing dust and sand up in gusts should remind you of how the patients may describe the significant amount of skin shedding. And the beautiful rubies scattered all over the islands is meant to remind you of the red papules. Oh, speaking of being marooned, I would wager that an empty diver's helmet without anyone else in sight. Yeah, that's probably not a good sign. This diver's helmet is to help you remember that PRP was previously called divergy disease, or as I like to say, diver disease. I mean, it's called Ruby Island, so why would someone be diving? Well, I'll tell you why. It's because it's called pretty Ruby Island. And pretty, yeah, that doesn't refer to the rubies. It refers to the local inhabitants of the waters around the island. Oh, here comes some now. Notice her fine, beautiful, sparkling scales and the perfect island ambiance of palm trees and sun. Her scales are meant to remind you that despite PRP having soriadic features on histology, clinically, the scale is very different with a fine flaky nature rather than the thick adherent plate-like scales of psoriasis. However, in real life, it can sometimes be difficult to differentiate psoriasis and PRP. And they're both considered psoriasiform rashes, hence why we've included our psoriasis palm trees in the sketch. Now, we've already mentioned the perifilicular papules, but I think it's worth bringing this up again because it's one of the more testable features, both clinically and histologically. I would hope a test would give you a slam dunk photo of them, but in real life, these papules are often more difficult to appreciate, so you need to know that looking at the dorsal aspect of the proximal fingers is one of the best places to examine and has classically been described as having the appearance of a nutmeg grader. So, let's hope you recall this high-yield feature by adding another little mermaid who's found a grader, but doesn't exactly know what to do with it. I mean, she's holding it like a cowbell and trying to play it like an instrument. Now, I know what you're thinking. He's used one buzz phrase nutmeg grader, will he use the others? And if you're not thinking that, then I'm disappointed. In my mind, I hear nutmeg and immediately without thinking, blurred out salmon-colored patches with islands of sparing. It's like some sort of uncontrolled Pavlovian reaction. So, let's just make sure that you have the same reaction. We'll include a school of bright red salmon jumping in the water and a few more islands scattered about for salmon-colored and islands of sparing. You know, I gotta say, this seems like quite a nice place to be mirrored. I mean, there's pretty mermaids, salmon, wheat, and giant clams, which, I imagine, once you clear out all that garbage under the shell, would actually make pretty nice building materials. These giant clams with tons of garbage under them are drawn to resemble the classic nail findings of a patient with PRP, namely, thick hyper-charotonic nails with a yellow-brown discoloration and sub-ungual debris, but lack in nail pits. We'll have a hook for this in our psoriasis sketch. Other changes that can be seen on the hand and a board-coder chrome favorite is thick, waxy, yellow, caratiderma. So, let's include one more mermaid who's had the foresight to put on some waxy yellow gloves before applying her sunscreen. Oh, and speaking of sunscreen, the sun is really beaten down and only one mermaid has brought a sunbrella. I am, uh, I am quite triggered by this. Recall that a sunbrella is our hook for photosensitive rash, and I bet you're confused because we often use narrow-band UVB to treat PRP. Well, true and true. But just remember that in some patients, they may experience flaring with phototherapy, so you should probably perform photo-testing before starting with PRP on phototherapy. Trust me, this is a clinically relevant point. All right, well, I think you now understand the setting. It's a beautiful island with an abundance of salmon, wheat, mermaids, and rubies, and it's also got an abundance of pirates. Note that we're going to use the characters in the front of the scene to exemplify the six distinct sub-types of PRP. We will list each type in order from one to six, but we'll also include numerical hooks with each pirate as an added measure. Our first Jack Sparrow-esque pirate standing on the island in the front left is the prototypic pirate and represents prototypic PRP, which is type one, also known as typical adult PRP. We'll remind you that it's type one by having him hold in a one sword and that it's typical adult by making him a typical adult pirate. Most of the features of type one PRP have already been discussed in the general overview, things like salmon colored patches and plaques with islands asparing and waxy yellow orange caratiderma. But we'll reinforce these by showing the pirate with a splotchy sunburn wearing waxy yellow gloves and the salmon that he's got with his sword. However, it's worth noting that PRP is among the list of diseases that can cause a Rithriderma, so we've depicted him wearing a bright red, British red coat uniform for a Rithriderma. Not all forms of PRP will present this way, so pay attention to which pirates are wearing a red coat and which aren't. Now, despite having the potential for a Rithriderma, which can be a dermatologic emergency if not managed appropriately, type one PRP and type three, which we'll get to in a bit, actually has quite a good prognosis with resolution within three years in the majority of cases. So, let's give Captain wannabe Jack a smiling three-heart tattoo to remind you that types one and three have a good prognosis and generally resolve within three years. Okay, now don't be alarmed, but this next pirate is something straight out of Davey Jones' locker. Outside of being scared easily and overreacting, he's actually quite nice. I mean, just look at those fishy, iktheotic scales. He ain't gonna hurt nobody. It looks like this pirate is ready to chillax in the cool island water and his giant number two swan inflatable. He's also totally rocking that alopecia dew rag. This pirate with the iktheotic scales, alopecia dew rag, and number two swan inflatable should remind you of type two PRP. This is to remind you that type two PRP classically presents iktheosa-formed leg lesions, caratiderma with coarse laminated scale and alopecia. Despite getting ready to have a nice pool day, he's not looking very happy. That scale on his face, that should remind you that type two PRP often has chronic course and poorer prognosis. Let's move on to our next character. And no, I don't believe children should be pirates. But you know what I say, imitation is a form of flattery. Just look at this little guy. He looks just like our Jack Sparrow-esque pirate representing PRP number one. Well, this is because type three PRP has the same course and presentation of PRP number one, but in children. To remind you that this is PRP number three, we'll have our little pirate lad flying a number three heart-shaped kite. And don't forget, type three PRP can also cause a rithra derma. So our cool kid is rocking the red coat as well. If you're a parent, you already know that some kids like to go against the grain and march to the beat of their own drum. This kid is taking that to a whole new level, but even swimming to his own island. Check out that little circumscribed island with the number four flag and multiple follicular grains of grass. He's on his elbows and knees in the sand and could really care less about what is going on with everyone else. You gotta respect that, right? And he's even got some elbow and knee pads on to protect himself from the sand. It's genius. This kid represents type four PRP, which often presents with follicular papules, hence follicles of grass most commonly affecting that elbows and knees as shown by the knee and elbow pads. I mean, the knee and elbow pads are good, but the rubber gloves, that's getting excessive. The rubber gloves should also remind you that patients with type four PRP may also get waxy keratiderma and the number one foam finger that he's wearing should remind you that this is the most common subtype of PRP seen in the pediatric population. Well, well, well. If it isn't our fifth character, who will represent type five PRP? This kid standing on a number five Maraka inflatable isn't a regular kid. He's also a seam monster. I don't know if you've heard, but seam monsters are like sea vampires and are super afraid of the sun. So as you can see, he's trying to repel the sun with his sclerodermoid shield. Bro, have you ever heard of sunscreen? Come on. Anyway, patients with type five PRP, aka the atypical juvenile form, often present within the first few years of life with PRP and sclerodermoid changes of the hands and feet, hence the sclerodermos shield. And, like the atypical form in adults, the atypical form in children also presents with an etiotic rash over the lower extremities. It's also important to remember that this type of PRP is sometimes associated with a mutation in card 14. And in these cases, the facial involvement is often more prevalent than in classic forms of PRP. To remind you of this, we've got our seam monster kid wearing a shirt with a number one sword and a number four flag and holding a sweet deck of cards. And we gave him a bright red face mask to cover up his scary seam monster face. Our final character will represent type six PRP, which you can tell because he's rocking our number six golf club. This pirate has taken his golf game very seriously. He's got his first aid bag right next to him in case of an emergency. Now, if you're a dermed amonics regular, you probably already recognize that this is our recurrent first aid aids bag. This is to remind you that type six PRP commonly affects patients with HIV and can present with a constellation of findings such as generalized PRP, hydrodynamic superativa, acne conglobata, and elongated follicular spines, AKA Lycan Spinulosa. To remind us of HS, we've got an angry hydra with sea urchin stuck to it. Yeah, that looks like it hurts. I guess it makes sense that he's got his first aid aids bag because he's using sea urchins for golf balls. That is definitely not the safest choice. These prickly little sea urchins will be our hook for follicular spines and should remind you of Lycan Spinulosas. For acne conglobata, I like to think of an eruptin volcano because of how inflammatory and perulent the lesions can be. So, let's give this guy's jacket a little flair by putting an embroidered volcano on it for acne conglobata. I, I, Captain. Now that was a long one. So, let's hit the high points of this sketch one last time and then let's get out of here. Pitoriacis rubra pylaris, aka PRP, presents with perifilicular red papules that occur due to retention of keratinocytes around the follicles as shown by the mounds of sand with wheat-like grass grown from them. The island winds blow in dust and sand up and gusts should remind you of how the patients may describe the significant amount of skin shed in and the rubies scattered all over the islands represent the red papules. Recall that the diver's helmet is to help you remember that PRP was previously called divergy disease and the mermaid with a nutmeg grader should remind you of the common finding of perifilicular nutmeg grader like papules as well as the school of salmon swimming which is to remind you of salmon colored patches with islands of sparing. Recall that the giant clams with garbage under them should remind you of the thick hyper-charatotic nails with a yellow brown discoloration and sub-ungual debris but lack in nail pits. And the waxy gloves that the mermaid is wearing serves as a hook for the waxy keratinoma of PRP. Recall that type one PRP is shown by a Jack Sparrow pirate carrying his number one sword. Recall that this pirate represents classic PRP which can sometimes cause a rithroiderma as shown by his stylish red coat. Remember that type one PRP often has a good prognosis with resolution within three years in the majority of cases. This is shown by the three heart tattoo to remind you that types one and three have a good prognosis and generally resolve within three years. Type two PRP is shown by our number two swan inflatable which is on the pirate with the iqueotic scales and the alopecia dewrag. Type two PRP classically presents Iqueosiform leg lesions, caratiderma with coarse laminated scale and alopecia. Recall that the scow on his face should remind you that type two PRP often has a chronic course and poorer prognosis. Recall that the type three PRP has the same course and presentation of PRP number one, but it's in children. This is shown by our pirate lad flying a number three heart-shaped kite. And don't forget the type three PRP can also cause a rithroiderma hence the red coat. Our kid hanging out on the island with the number four flag represents type four PRP, which often presents with follicular papules as shown by the follicles of grass and affects the elbows and knees as shown by the knee and elbow pads. The rubber gloves should also remind you that patients with type four PRP may also get waxy caratiderma. This is the most common form in kids hence the number one foam finger. Type five PRP is shown by our sea monster kid standing on the number five, Maraka, wearing a face mask and a scleroderma shield. Patients with type five PRP, aka typical juvenile form, often present with the first few years of life with PRP and sclerodermoid changes, hence the shield. Recall that it can be associated with card 14 mutations, which is usually associated with a very early onset and more prominent involvement of the face as shown by the face mask. Lastly, our pirate plane sea urchin golf should remind you of type six PRP, which commonly affects patients with HIV as shown by the first aid AIDS bag by our golfer. These patients often present with a constellation of findings such as generalized PRP, hydradonitis superativa as shown by the hydra, acne conglobata, the volcano on his jacket, and elongated follicular spines, aka lichen spinulosis as shown by the sea urchins. Well, matey, I think we just about covered the whole island in search of pretty rubies and we also learned a lot about PRP. I'll see you next time.
