TRANSCRIPT: Psoriasis
============================================================

Hello, and welcome back. In today's sketch, I want you to sit back, relax, and enjoy the waves crash, as we learn about one of the most common chronic dermatologic diseases, psoriasis. Psoriasis is one of the most prevalent diseases worldwide, and can cause significant morbidity and psychological distress for many patients. Studies even show that the impact on quality of life is as severe as heart disease, diabetes, and cancer. As dermatologists, we need to know all the nitty gritty ends and out of this disease. So let's get started. Whoa, check out that super relaxed hammock right next to a palm tree. Now ain't that a site for psoriasis? This site for psoriasis hammock is to remind you of psoriasis. The pathogenesis of psoriasis is multifunctional with genetic factors playing a major role. So far, nine psoriasis susceptibility genetic loci have been identified, they're known as psor1 through nine. However, psor1 is the most high-yield one to know for the boards. So we'll place our recurring hook for number one, which is the number one sword, leaning up against our palm tree for psor1. You can also remember psor because it sounds like psor2, so it serves as a double hook for psor1. It's also important to remember that it is specifically the HLA-CW6 allele contained with psor1, which is the most strongly associated with psoriasis, and carries up to a 15-fold increased risk. Well, whoever tied up this hammock definitely double-naughted it, because the tree looks like it's really bending. And notice that it's so bent that it kinda looks like the letter C, and our hammock, well, it's all jacked up so it looks like the letter W. Well, I guess whoever put this thing up was hurrying to go play some golf on the beach because they totally left their number six golf club behind. The C-shaped palm tree, W-shaped hammock, and number six golf club all service hooks remind you of HLA-CW6. Although HLA-CW6 has the strongest association with psoriasis, other HLA-alleleles are important to commit to memory as well. For example, those with HLA-B17 and HLA-B13 alleles have been shown to have a higher incidence of both guttate and erythrodermic psoriasis. And speaking of erythroderma, that's gotta burn. That is one nasty sunburn. Now this dude definitely did not take his dermatologist advice before going on this beach trip. If he was sitting in a hospital bed, yeah, I would definitely say that he's a erythrodermic. Now, I see that he's holding a number one sword and a seven boomerang. Neither of those weapons are strong enough to fight the sun, bro. Well, this erythrodermic sunburn dude serves as a hook to remind you of HLA-B17 for erythrodermic psoriasis. Ah, well, how romantic. Despite the sunburn, he's trying to make the trip romantic. He's created a sweet little heart in the sand made out of these pebbles. But he should probably get rid of that number one sword sitting next to it. It kinda looks a little dangerous. These little pebbles should remind you of the little guttate-type papules and plaques that affect patients with guttate psoriasis. The number one sword with the number three hearts spelled out in the sand are to remind you that this type of psoriasis is common in patients with the HLA-B13 allele. Oh my, take a gander that super cool sand castle. Now this kid must have been working on that for hours. That is some back-breaking labor. Oh, and speaking of his back, does look like he missed a spot with a sunscreen, got some high UV rays this afternoon. That's a pretty bad sunburn there on his sacroiliac region. Maybe he should face away from the sun and play with his number two pet swan and number seven boomerang. This kid with the sacroiliac sunburn and number two swan and number seven boomerang is her mind you of the HLA-B27 allele, which is a marker for sacroiliac is associated psoriasis and psoriasis. It looks like he's really been digging in the sand. Take a look at those lines that he made with his rake. These are the remind you that in general psoriasis demonstrates the kebner phenomenon, meaning that these patients may develop lesions within the area of trauma such as surgical sites, bumps, scrapes, and even inflammation such as acute stasis dermatitis. The lag time between the trauma and psoriasis eruption is typically anywhere from two to six weeks. You should keep in mind that other forms of trauma such as sunburns, demonstrated by a sunburned beach bumps, may also induce psoriasis lesions. Before we move on, it's also important to know that HLA-B27 allele may also be associated with increased risk for pusular psoriasis. And to remind you of this, we've added some little pus stool like sand bumps next to the sand castle. Now, let's quickly cover the high yield triggers for psoriasis. Let's take a look at the super relaxed pregnant mom to be chilling by the beach completely oblivious to her husband's romantic gestures. This is to remind you that pregnancy may be a trigger for psoriasis, and in this case, it even gets a special name, impetigo herpetiformis. Now many drugs can also trigger psoriasis, so you'll need to commit those to memory as well. We'll place the drugs that may trigger psoriasis with rapid onset, which means less than four weeks by the pregnant woman's head. We'll place the drugs with longer latency periods, so over 12 weeks by her hand, and drugs with intermediate latency which is 4 to 12 weeks by the boardwalk in the front. Ah, no pets? Seriously? What happened to the dog days of summer, guys? Now if you're a dermed mnemonics regular, you've probably noticed that this is our recurrent hook for NSAIDs. Aka, our NSAIDs-sadface-sign. It's important to know that NSAIDs and Turbinephine may trigger psoriasis in the short term. Typically, a current less than four weeks from drug initiation to onset of lesions. To remind you of Turbinephine, we've placed our Turbinephine Turbinephan next to our mom to be to help cooler off in the scorch and sun. Well, it looks like this mom is not about that sunburned life. She brought her ultimate beta blocker sunscreen along on her beach trip. Woohoo, and this gal came prepared. She even brought a spare lithium ion lithium battery for her fan. This beta blocker sunscreen and lithium battery are hooks to remind you of beta blockers and lithium as long latency drugs that may trigger psoriasis after 12 weeks or more of using the medications. Woo, that sun is hot! My start of fire! Oh, but take a look at the hydrogen over by the dock. Safety first. But this isn't any fire hydrant. This is a hydroxychloroquine hydrant. Hydroxychloroquine is a common trigger for psoriasis that may occur anywhere from 4 to 12 weeks after starting the drug. Hey, wait a minute. What's this guy doing here? I thought there were no pets allowed on this beach, so what is Ace Ventura the pet detective doing cruising around? Well, if you've been watching our other sketches, you might know why. Ace Ventura is a recurring hook for ace inhibitors, which also may trigger psoriasis in the intermediate latency period. Now, why would our mom to be bring her TNF alpha inhibitor cell phone to the beach? I thought the whole point of a beach trip was to relax and unplug. Uh, also, I thought TNF alphas were used to treat psoriasis. Well, that's where it gets complicated. TNF alphas are used as treatment for psoriasis, but in some cases, they may also trigger psoriasis. In particular, psoriasis or pomegranate pustulosis. To remind you of pomegranate pustulosis, we've placed some bumps which look like pustules in the sand next to our TNF alpha cell phone. Now, let's quickly cover some of the important high yield immunologic markers that affect the development of psoriasis and are often targeted by many of the biologic therapies as treatment. On the left side of the sketch, we'll place the immunologic markers that are increased and those that are decreased back in the center of the sketch. Recall that psoriasis has prominent involvement of helper T cells and their secreted cytokines. It's important to know that IL-22 producing T helper cells are increased in psoriasis and may correlate with disease severity. We'll represent IL-22 cytokines with our two number two swans enjoying a romantic walk on the beach together. Furthermore, it's important to remember that IL-23 produced by dendritic cells stimulates TH-17 cells to produce IL-17 and IL-22. Hence, why many of the biologics target IL-23 which is increased in psoriasis patients? For IL-23, we'll place our super cool 23 air Jordans fallen out of this bag. And if I have to explain why air Jordans represent the number 23, oh man, you need to watch Space Jam or some 90s basketball. Now it looks like our number one sword and number seven boomerang have fallen out of this beach bag. This is to represent IL-17 which is also increased in psoriasis patients. Both IL-17 and IL-22 release cause dermal inflammation and keratinocyte replication in psoriasis, often caused by TH-17 stimulation by IL-23. Lastly, it's important to know that IL-10 is a TH-2 cytokine that attenuates the immune response caused by psoriasis and serves as an anti-inflammatory marker that is decreased in psoriasis. To remind you of this, we've placed our number one sword and zero crown buried in the background in the sand. Alright, now let's sum up this sketch and review the hooks one more time. This sketch covers the high yield features of psoriasis as shown by our site for psoriasis hammock and palm tree as shown in the center of the sketch. Our number one sword leaned up against the palm tree is to remind you of psor 1 which is the most important psoriasis susceptibility gene to know for the boards. It's also important to remember that psoriasis is also strongly linked to the HLA-CW-6 allele, which typically correlates with the age of onset of the disease. This is represented by our bent palm tree looking like the letter C, our W shaped hammock and number 6 golf club sitting next to it. The super sun burned arithrodermic dude holding his number one sword and number 7 boomerang are to remind you that the HLA-B17 allele has a higher incidence for arithrodermic psoriasis. The number one sword and number 3 heart made out of pebbles in the sand serves as a hook to remind you of HLA-B13 which is another allele that is prevalent in patients with guttate psoriasis. Remember that guttate psoriasis is shown by the little pebbles in the sand that resemble guttate lesions clinically. This kid with the sacro-aleaxun burn and number 2 swan and number 7 boomerang is to remind you of the HLA-B27 allele, which is a marker for sacro-aleitis associated psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. Recall that psoriasis may be triggered locally by trauma to the skin known as the kebner phenomenon. This is represented by this kid's sand rake making linear lines in the sand. The little bumps next to our sand castle is to remind you that patients with the HLA-B27 allele may also be more susceptible to developing postular psoriasis. Now let's quickly sum up the high points for triggers for psoriasis. Our pregnant mom to be chilling by the beach is to remind you that pregnancy is a trigger for psoriasis. Many drugs can trigger psoriasis as well. Our no pets nsad, sad face sign and our turbinephine, turbinephan are to remind you of nsads and turbinephine which can cause psoriasis lesions within 4 weeks of use. This mom's beta blocker sunscreen and lithium battery are to remind you that beta blockers and lithium may trigger psoriasis, often with a longer latency of greater than 12 weeks after initiation of the drug. Furthermore, our hydroxychloroquine hydrant and ace ventura chilling near the boardwalk are hooks to remind you that hydroxychloroquine and ace inhibitors may trigger psoriasis in the intermediate latency period, which is typically 4 to 12 weeks of drug onset. Lastly, recall that TNF alphas are used as a treatment for psoriasis, but in some cases they may also trigger psoriasis, in particular plaques psoriasis or pomemoplantar postulosis. To remind you of TNF alphas, we've placed our TNF alphas cell phone near our mom to be and also placed some little bumps in the sand next to the cell phone to remind you of pomemoplantar postulosis. Lastly, let's review some of the high yield immunologic markers that are crucial to know about the pathogenesis of psoriasis. Recall that the immunologic markers that are increased are on the left side of the sketch and the ones that are decreased are in the background. It's important to know that IL-22 producing T helper cells are increased in psoriasis and may correlate with disease severity, as shown by our two number two swans enjoying a romantic walk on the beach together. Also, recall that increased IL-23 produced by dendritic cells simulates TH-17 cells to produce IL-17 and IL-22. For IL-23, we've placed our super cool 23 air Jordans fallen out of this beach bag. The number one sword and number seven boomerang have fallen out of this beach bag as well. This is to represent IL-17, which is also increased in psoriasis patients. Lastly, it's important to know that IL-10 attenuates the immune response caused by psoriasis and it serves as an anti-inflammatory marker that is decreased in psoriasis. To remind you of this, we've placed our number one sword and zero crown buried in the background in the sand. Well, I don't know about you, but I'm going to grab a gown, a sunscreen, and head to the beach for rest of the day. I'll see you next time.
