TRANSCRIPT: Pyoderma Gangrenosum
============================================================

What could be a better day than relaxing with someone you enjoy the company of? If pie were involved, in this sketch, call a day to pie for. We'll be talking about the clinical features and basic treatments for pyodermic gangrenosum. PG is another disease in the family of dermatosis known as neutrophilic dermatosis, which are often a reaction pattern to a more insidious underlying disease. Like in our last sketch, sweets are caged. We'll again prominently feature ants in the scene, to remind you of neutrophils that are causing all the trouble. Let's kick off the scene by introducing our pie for pyoderma. We've also made it a blueberry pie to serve as the first classic clinical feature. A blue or violacious border. The ulcer scene in the classic form of PG are described as having irregular, overhanging borders with undermining. A border kind of like the edge of this pie, overhanging outside of the pie with the pie pan rolled up under it. As mentioned a minute ago, PG is a neutrophilic dermatosis, and so we've included our ants scavenging for food to remind you of this. Unfortunately, the legions can grow to form incredibly large ulcers, which may even involve the underlying tissues and cause significant pain with slow healing. As they fill, the ulcers heal with what's called a trophic, cribiform scarring. Our hope for a trophic skin is a wrinkled tissue, like this one that the couples clearly use to help clean up the pie filling. Speaking of spilt filling, this guy needs to be more careful. This filling on the lower extremity is reminding that the anterior leg is the most common side of the classic PG. In practice, this can be particularly challenging, as it's not uncommon for patients to have a pre-existing dermatitis in this region, such as stasis dermatitis. Furthermore, the lower leg is an area of slow healing, and it's a frequent side of minor trauma, such as bumps. In a question they'd like to use a needle stick as a minor trauma, the subsequent development of new lesions. This is a phenomenon known as pathogen. Our current hook for pathogen will be this mosquito with a big red bump forming where it's biting them. While you need to know about the classic form, you should also be aware that there are other presentations, such as vegetative, bollus, and puscular pyoderma. Pustular PG is exactly what it sounds like, lots of small pustules that rarely progress to ulcers. If you've ever been attacked by ants, you can probably imagine when being covered by a bunch of small pustules as like. So remind you of pustular PG, let's give this guy a bunch of amythes on his lower leg. As a note, this form is often associated with inflammatory bowel disease. Now let's shift our focus to significant other next to him. Do you see how our blouse is ruffled and flowery? If you were a dermatologist, you might even say vegetative. This is to remind you that the vegetative form of PG forms a perulent verucus and vegetative plaques. It's also the least aggressive form, kind of like this least aggressive woman who's fallen asleep. Furthermore, it responds well to only conservative management and typically arises following trauma. On the test, the form of trauma presented is often surgery. So we'll have our woman resting her hand under chest and give her a knife to hold next to the ruffles on her blouse to remind you of a surgical knife. Some sources consider a condition known as neutrophilic dermatosis of the dorsal hand or NDDH for short to be unique and rare form of pyoderma getting a no-sum. I can't say I disagree with this because I'm not a splitter, but NDDH also shares many features with sweet syndrome, including a predilection for the dorsal hands. Tremendium neutrophilic dermatosis of the dorsal hand will add cherries from a sweet syndrome sketch to this sketch and place them on her dorsal hand. The lesions also appear clinically as kind of a mixture of sweets and PG, but often described as red to violations all sort of papules and plaques. As stated earlier, pyodermal gangrenosum is often associated with underlying conditions, and the next several hosts will be dedicated to covering the most notable of these. First and foremost, you have to know inflammatory bowel disease is probably the most important association both clinically and for the test, so burn, no pun intended, the image of the spilled diuretia like soda with a weird pink sorely straw and lighter, termined with inflammatory bowel disease. Notice how the straw kind of looks like bowel and then remember the lighter for inflammatory. You should always look for underlying disease if you diagnose pyodermal gangrenosum, and might I suggest starting with a GI tract, but other associations include inflammatory arthritis, CML, monoclonal game opthes, or really any hematologic disorder. We've included our IgA apple to remind you of IgA gemopathy. We've also included this pack of CAMEL cancer sticks for CML and some pain bolts on our character's knee to remind you of arthritis. For real, those pesky ambites do hurt. You see this balloon animal? It's kind of weird just to bring it along and set next to your smokes, right? We've simply included this hook because the bolstorp PG is seeing more commonly in the setting of malignancy. Once you've evaluated for and treated any underlying conditions, treatment of pyodermal gangrenosum largely revolves around immunosuppression. This comes in the form of topical or intreligional corticosteroids if the disease is mild, but you might need systemic immunosuppresses with severe or calcetern. To remind you of topical steroids, we've included our hydro water bottles or cans in this case. But if there's moderate to severe disease, first of all, it's often systemic corticosteroids. Let's include our big hydrochlorobect here to remind you that they'll often need repeat courses of systemic steroids. As you may already know, if you've treated patients with pyodermal gangrenosum, the disease can be very resistant to treatment and require additional immunosuppressive medications to control. Namely, influxemab and cyclosporin are considered the treatment of choice for recalcitrant or severe disease. So we've included our cyclosporin mushrooms in the sketch. And then let's throw in our TNF alphorettro cell phone to help remind you of influxemab. I do love how the ants are marching off of the mushroom. It's probably my favorite detail of the sketch. If the above treatments fail, there are many other immunosuppressive therapies that could be added, such as DAPSONE or ANA-KINRA or Adelimumab. This is where the art of medicine really comes into play and won't be covered in depth for the purposes of the sketch. Importantly, PG is a diagnosis of exclusion. You must rule out infection, vasculitis, vasculopathy, and malignancy, which often includes an extensive laboratory workup, detailed review of systems, communication with a primary care provider, and biopsy. On a biopsy, remember that you'll expect to see tons of neutrophils, but it'll involve both a superficial and deep dermis, much deeper than you would see in sweet syndrome. Just like these ants in the sketch going from top to bottom. Let's review these hooks so we can all get outside and enjoy some fresh air. First, our blueberry pie is to remind you of the irregular ulcers with overhanging and violacious borders. They're often on the lower extremities like the filling in the sketch, and heel with atrovix scarring, so remember that tissue paper. Patients often show pathogeny which prompts new ulcer formation. MISKIDO bite on a sled. The posterior form, which usually doesn't form ulcers, just lots of postules, is like the ant bites on his leg, and it's usually associated with inflammatory bowel disease. The vegetative form shown by our vegetative blouse is at least aggressive, kind of like our sleeping woman, and it results in perillent plaques that follow trauma, such as surgeries, remember the knife. A related condition is neutrophilic dermatosis of the dorsal hand, which has features of both sweets and pyotermagangerinosum, and is shown by the sweet cherries on her dorsal hand. You have to look for associated conditions when you make the diagnosis of pyotermagangerinosum, and some of the most notable, including inflammatory bowel disease, this build drink with the bowel, straw, and lighter. Monoclonal IgAgamopathy and CML, the IgA apple, and the CML cancer sticks. While I've specifically pointed out CML, you should just remember that it's pretty much any hematologic disorder that can be associated. Also remember that the balloon animal is in this corner by the CML cancer to recall that the bull's form occurs more commonly in setting a malignancy. Also remember the pain bolt on his knee for arthritis. Treatment of pyotermagangerin revolves around immunosuppression, topical or intralesional steroids for mild disease, remember the hydro water cans, and systemic corticosteroids with or without the additional immunosuppressants for mild severe disease. However, in recalustrant or various severe disease, influxemap and cyclosporin will be the treatment of choice. So remember the cyclosporin mushrooms in the TNF alphanhybid cell phone, together here in the center left hand side. And don't forget, one of the most important things you can do is encourage good wound care. Lastly, remember that you have to exclude all other possible ideologies. This often means biopsy. Now in histology you expect to see neutrophils both superficially and deep, just like the ants that are both superficial and deep on this page. Alright, now go get outside, get some rays, and we'll catch you next time.
