TRANSCRIPT: High-Yield Sensory Innervation of the Head & Neck (Part 1)
============================================================

Welcome to the Trigem Jewelry Store, where we'll cover the trigeminal nerve or cranial nerve 5. First off, check out this damaged trophy, which represents trigeminal trophic syndrome. This usually occurs when the trigeminal nerve is damaged, and check out our neurocutaneous dermatosis chapter for more details. The trigeminal nerve has three main branches. From superior to inferior, these branches are the ophthalmic branch, the maxillary branch, and the mandibular branch. Let's start off with the ophthalmic branch, which is symbolized by the jeweler's ophthalmic glasses. This branch has three major sub-branches of its own. The most high yield branch of these is the nasosiliary nerve, illustrated by the saliated hairy nose of this jeweler. This branch further divides into three branches of its own. The one you definitely need to know is the anterior ethmoidal division, which is crucial for sensation in the distal half of the central nose. The anterior ethmoidal division is symbolized by this patron holding antis ethanol. He is in front of the counter to further remind us that it's the anterior ethmoidal branch. The nasosiliary branch can be affected by the varicelizoster virus, or human herpes virus 3, which is shown by hermese on the countertop. And this occurs clinically we can see the Hutchinson sign, which is involvement of the nasosiliary branch at the tip of the nose. This is important because it's often linked to herpesoster ophthalmicus, and we show this with hermese glasses on fire. This requires urgent evaluation by an ophthalmologist. Next up is the maxillary branch, represented by the advertisement of a maximum shine on the other side of the store. An important branch of the maxillary division is the in-for-orbital nerve, symbolized by this jeweler holding a gold ring under her eye to represent in-for-orbital. This nerve innervates the nasal sidewall, nasal aela, and the upper lip, as depicted by the jeweler's nose and lip piercings, which pierce the nasal sidewall, nasal aela, and her upper lip. The third branch of the trigeminal nerve is the mandibular branch, symbolized by a man with a large mandible. The mandibular branch subdivides into the ariculotemporal nerve, as shown by this man holding a small or ariculo temporal hourglass. This nerve innervates the superior portion of the anterior external ear and auditory canal. We'll represent this with this oddly ear-shaped record player to represent the external auditory canal. The man is in front of it to remind us that it innervates the anterior portion of the external auditory canal. He's also holding that timer up to remind us that it specifically innervates the superior portion. According to the ariculotemporal nerve can often occur during TMJ surgery, as shown by the man whinsing with his TMJ in pain. If it does become injured, this can lead to paresthesia of the ear and temple. To help you remember this, we depicted the man talking on the phone, which is pressed up against his ear and temple to represent paresthesia of the ear and temple. Additionally, the ariculotemporal nerve provides parasympathetic innervation to the paraded gland. This is depicted by the kid in front of the counter, chewing gum representing the paraded gland, and he's relaxing to remind us that it's specifically parasympathetic innervation. Parasympathetics are often remembered with the phrase rest and digest, which is exactly what that kid is doing. Behind him, his friend is spitting out his food to represent what happens if this nerve is injured during paradedectomy. If the ariculotemporal nerve is injured during paradedectomy, it can result in a phrase syndrome, which is characterized by gustatory sweating, which is just a fancy way of saying sweating while eating. Fraysindrum is represented by the kid eating fries while sweating. Another branch of the mandibular nerve is the lingual nerve, shown by the man in the back sticking out his lingual tongue. He's sticking out a good two-thirds of it to remind us that the lingual nerve provides sensation to the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. In addition to sensory innervation, the mandibular nerve also supplies motor innervation to the muscles of mass-tication, which is shown by this motor blender chewing up food, just like the muscles of mass-tication would do. We will also briefly touch on the cervical nerves, particularly the great aricular nerve derived from C2 and C3. These cervical nerves are depicted by a man with a cervical-colored shirt. He's holding a great hourglass marked with C2 and C3 to remind us that the great aricular nerve derives from C2 and C3. This nerve innervates the majority of the posterior as well as the anterior two-thirds of the external ear. We represent this by him standing behind or posterior to that ear-shaped record player, but he's kind of at an angle so he also covers parts of the front. Lastly, a drill to the side of the counter represents the injection of anesthetics into the furamina like the superorbital, super-trochlear, infraorbital, and mental furamins, which can lead to prolonged anesthesia in these areas. Females are used to represent the furamen because furamen essentially look like holes that are drilled into the skull. Let's go through the symbols one more time. The trigem jewelry store symbolizes the trigeminal nerve or cranial nerve 5. A damaged trophy represents trigeminal trophic syndrome, which is due to nerve damage. The jeweler's glasses symbolize the ophthalmic branch or V1 of the trigeminal nerve. And his hairy, saliated nose symbolizes the high-yled nasosiliary nerve of the ophthalmic branch. In front of the counter, the patron holding Antis ethenol signifies the anterior ethenoidal division of the nasosiliary nerve. He's smelling the ethanol with the distal tip of the nose, highlighting this nerve's role in nasal sensation at the tip. On the countertop, Hermes, with his glasses on fire, denotes herpes' zoster ophthalmicus, which affects the nasosiliary nerve resulting in Hutchinson sign where the distal nose is affected by varisol zoster. On the right, the poster advertising Maximum Shine represents the maxillary branch or V2. The jeweler holding a gold ring under her eye depicts the infraorbital nerve, and her nose and lip piercings symbolize the areas that are innervated by the infraorbital nerve. Behind the counter, the man with a large mandible symbolizes the mandibular branch or V3. He's holding a small hourglass to symbolize the ariculotemporal nerve. He's standing in front of the earshaved record player to symbolize the nerve's innovation of the superior portion of the anterior external ear and auditory canal. He's winsing in pain at his TMJ representing the potential injury of this nerve during TMJ surgery, which can lead to parasitias of the ear and temple, as shown by him pressing the phone against his ear and temple. In front of the counter, the kid relaxing while chewing gum represents parasympathetic innovation of the paraded gland represented by the bubble gum. Behind him, the kid spitting out his food represents the nerve's potential injury during paradedectomies. He's eating fries to symbolize fray syndrome, and he's profeosely sweating to illustrate the gustatory sweating that occurs with the syndrome. In the back, the man sticking out two-thirds of his tongue represents the lingual nerve, which is responsible for sensation on the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. A motor blender on the counter symbolizes motor innovation to the muscles of mass-dication by the mandibular nerve. The man with a cervical-collared shirt holding a great hourglass with C2-3 written on it depicts the cervical nerves C2-3, which form the great, irregular nerve. He's standing behind the earshaved record player to symbolize that it innervates a majority of the posterior, as well as two-thirds of the anterior parts of the external ear. Finally, a drill signifies the injection of anesthetics into the foream enough for prolonged anesthesia. That's a wrap on the sensory nerves of the face. Tune into the next dermatographics for more Derms Surgery videos.
