TRANSCRIPT: Stevens-Johnson Syndrome / TEN
============================================================

How long have you been standing there? Alright well this is embarrassing but let's move on. Welcome back and in today's sketch titled it's kind of a big deal. We're gonna totally be nerding out at the International Comic and Sci-Fi Convention. And this convention? Well I mean it's kind of a big deal. Not just because the characters are freaking awesome because they are, but also because we are covering one of the most important cant miss diagnoses in dermatology. Stevens, Johnson Syndrome. So you're gonna nerd out on some cool Comic-Con stuff, but you're also gonna learn the triggers, classic features, basic science and prognostic determinants of this dermatologic emergency. Stevens Johnson Syndrome or SJS for short is a rare, acute and life threatening mucocutaneous disease that is almost always drug related. The clinical features are due to extensive keratinocyte necrosis with subsequent separation of skin at the DEJ causing sloughing skin and mucus membranes. Alright, so when I think of the baddest villain at Comic-Con, well I mean I can't help but imagine Darth Maul. Trust me, you don't want to know what will happen if you don't invite him. Luckily for us, Darth Maul happens to be bright red and so he will be our central hook for SJS. Now this guy's cosplay is on point. He's got his number one sword which looks like a lightsaber and it's of course to fight off Jedi scum. And uh... swans. This must be from the extended universe. Anyways, the one sword and two swan approaching him should serve as hooks to remind you that SJS typically occurs within 1-2 weeks of initiation of the culprit medication. Notably, SJS almost always involves them eukosa, nearly 92-100% of the time. This can take the form of oral erosions, ocular erosions with potential for blindness, and genital eukosa erosions which can result in strictures. Because of this, it is crucial that any patient with SJS needs an ophthalmology and urology consult in addition to dermatology. To represent the various sites of involvement, we've depicted Darth Maul wearing his super cool ocular sunglasses, his wide open mouth showing his oral eukosa, and he's rocking bright red underwear in true Comic Con fashion. I mean seriously, anything goes to these conventions. Anyways, it looks like Darth Maul has a target on his back, and I mean literally, he's standing on a target. In addition to demarcation of his sparring arena, this is to remind you that these patients may present with atypical targetoid macules or plaques. You should know that initially SJS presents with a morbilla form eruption that favors the trunk. Over time, these macules and papules become confluent and result in clinical erythroderma prior to sloughing. Notably, SJS typically has relative sparring of the distal extremities, and unlike a classic morbilla form eruption, SJS is not paritic, but instead is painful due to necrosis. Over time, this skin becomes dusky and eventually sloths. All that SJS is on the erythroderma differential by recalling the bright red Darth Maul and the distribution of his clothing should remind you that the torso, face, and eukosal membranes are most commonly involved, but the black wraps around the forearms and on the lower extremities should remind you of the sparring of the distal extremities. Lastly, you should know that because the necrosis is full thickness, neckolski, and asbo hands and signs will be positive. Next, let's move over to the left side of the sketch and cover the common culprit of drugs of SJS. I can't say that I'm a huge piranha press fan, but hey, this piranha costume, now that is pretty sick. Oh, by the way, for you Jen Zeeers and millennials, piranha press was a popular comic in the early 90s. Aww, how cute, he brought his little cephalopod friend with him to the convention. This piranha serves as a hook for aloe purinol, aka aloe piranhaol, and the cephalopod represents cephalosporins, both of which are common causes of SJS. By the way, this brings me to my next point. Let's see a catch with all the fish stuff. Heh, catch. Check out that fish sign on the wall over there. Aside from being an interest in band, this fish fish is our recurring hook for menopsychling, which is an important trigger of SJS that as a dermatologist you just have to know. Tri-method prim, sulfa-methoxazol is another commonly used medication, and one that I personally tried to avoid whenever possible because it's a common trigger of numerous drug-induced rashes, as well as another well-known cause of SJS. So we've included our TMP SMX tampon dispenser on the back wall to remind you of this. Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, aka NNRTIs, used in HIV therapy are also commonly implicated in SJS patients. Check out this mage trying to cast spells. This mage represents a back of your, which kind of sounds like Abercadabra, and it seems like his elf friend is probably the only one impressed by his magic skills. This elf friend represents a favrents. We'll also include a first aid bag by this dynamic duo because patients with HIV have a significantly higher risk of developing SJS compared to otherwise healthy patients. Oh, as a side note, the Lord of the Rings is one of the greatest literary works of all time. You haven't read it and you don't recognize Gandalf and Legolas? Ooh, I just don't know if I can help you. Lastly, this pine tree which is planted next to them is meant to represent nevirapine, another NNRTI commonly caused in SJS. Well, when I look again, maybe the mage was actually trying to use his magic to fix us out of order bathroom. Now if you're a Dermnomonic's master, you've probably noticed that this out of order bathroom sign has our recurrent NSAID sad face on it, which is to remind you that NSAIDs can cause SJS as well. Now the most notorious class of medications known to induce SJS is aromatic anti-convulsants, which can also cross-react with other medications in the same class. Let's cover the first anti-convulsant here around the pine tree. This barbed wire is our recurrent hook for barbituates. Now, I guess some of the Comic Con attendees can be pretty destructive. I'm assuming it's because they all think they have superpowers. So we had to go and place barbed wire around our true in order to protect it. This barbed wire is meant to represent Fino barbitol. Speaking of superpowers, is there anything we can do to save that Lambo from getting towed? Man, I sure hope that isn't Darth Maul's car, because if it is, that tow guy might be in for a rough time. Well actually, maybe the Lambo is getting towed because it's broken down. I do see the carburetor showing. Recall that the tow truck is our recurrent hook for Fenney Toan, and the Lambo is to remind you of Lomo trigene, and lastly the broken carburetor is to remind you of carbamazepine. It's also important to remember that these drugs may have a later onset of SJS, usually within the first two months of starting the medication, as shown by our two swan. Well, I guess duck, cruising around our towed Lambo. Also, recall that if a patient has a reaction to one of these medications, the others are contraindicated due to a risk of cross-reactivity. In this case, the medication of choice should be Valproate, which does not cross-react. To help you remember this, we'll put a Valproate out with the V-shaped head feathers way away from the other hooks on the right side of the sketch. Next, let's quickly review the pathogenesis of SJS. In SJS, the culprit drug binds to MHC1 complex or other intracellular peptides to form antigen recognized by CD8 positive T cells, eventually leading to apoptosis. Granny Lyson is the major mediator of apoptosis, directly damaging keratinocytes in SJS. Speaking of mediators, we may need one to sort out this towed issue. Looks like this granny is the owner of the Lambo being towed, and man, she is not happy. She's so shocked that her car is getting towed that she dropped her fresh can of soda pop, and it's just exploding all over the floor. This granny is to remind you of Granny Lyson, and the exploding pop is to remind you of the apoptosis in SJS. Now don't let her age fool you, this granny has a need for speed. Check out the license plate on the car that says fast 95. This license plate serves as a hook to remind you of fast ligand, aka CD95L, which is a transmembrane protein in the TNF family found on cytotoxic T cells, natural killer cells, and keratinocytes. Fast ligand binds to the fast death receptor on target keratinocytes, and the fast ligand, fast complex, leads to activation of the caspase cascade, ultimately causing apoptosis. To remind you of caspases, we've placed some of Granny's old school cassette tapes on the dash of her Lambo. Now just when I thought this convention could get any weirder, it looks like there's a guy selling pet bugs and mason jars. Now I don't think taking one of these bugs from his hand will be all that challenging, because if you look closely, you can see that the advertisement says tame bugs. Recall that tame bugs is a popular numonic used to remember the parameters of the scorton score, which is a severity of illness score for SJS, TEN patients used to predict prognosis. T is for tacky cardia, A is for age, M is for malignancy, E is for epidermal loss above 10%, B is for bicarbonate under 20, U is for urea, and G is for glucose above 210. While not explicitly shown, it's also important to remember that serum bicarb less than 20 is the single most important risk factor for mortality. I don't know if we should tell him, but I think the mage left his wizard staff on the ground over here. This staff is our recurrent hook for staff aureus, and in patients with SJS, secondary infection is one of the most common causes of death. Specifically, staff and pseudomonas are particularly dangerous, and perhaps you notice that our bug salesman, well he's not just any guy, he's a sumo wrestler salesman. These sumo salesmen and the staff are to remind you that infection with either staff or pseudomonas are some of the most common causes of death in SJS patients. Now let's quickly sumo, I mean sum up the sketch. Stevens Johnson syndrome is a rare, acute, and life threatening mucus cutaneous disease that is almost always drug related and is due to extensive keratinocyte necrosis causing slough and skin and mucus membranes. Our Darth Maul character holding his number one sword to fight off the number two swans is to remind you that SJS typically occurs one to two weeks after initiation of a culprit medication. Darth Maul wearing his super cool, ocular sunglasses, having his mouth wide open to show his oromucosa and rocking his red underwear is to remind you that SJS commonly affects the eyes, oromucosa and genitals. Furthermore, the target that Darth Maul is standing on is to remind you that these patients may also present with atypical targetoid lesions. Remember that SJS is on the Arithroderma differential as shown by our bright red Darth Maul. And the distribution of his clothing should remind you that torso, face and mucus membranes are the most commonly involved. Now let's quickly sum up the common culprit drugs causing SJS. Recall that the piranha serves as a hook for alopurinol, aka alopurinol, and the cephalopod represents cephalosporins, both of which are common causes of SJS. The fish fish is our recurrent hook for menopsychling, and our TMP SMX tampon dispenser on the back wall is a hook to remind you of backdrum. Several of the NNRTIs used in HIV therapy are also commonly implicated in SJS patients, as shown by our mage cast and spells, and say an abracadabra for a back of year. These alphrens standing nearby is a hook for ephabarenz, and lastly the pine tree placed next to them is to remind you of nevereppine. We've also placed our first aid aids bag near them to remind you that these are HIV drugs, and the HIV patients have a significantly higher risk of developing SJS. It's also important to know that NSAIDs may cause SJS as shown by our recurrent NSAID sad face sign on the out of order bathroom sign. The aromatic anti-convulsants are another notorious culprit for SJS, which can also cross-react with other medications in the same class. The barbed wire surrounding the tree is to remind you of barbituates, particularly phenobarbital. Furthermore, Fennetone is another common offender as shown by our tow truck, and the Lambo-Gitin tow is to remind you of Lomochrigine, and lastly, the broken carburetor is to remind you of carbon masapene. It's also important to remember that these drugs may have later onset of SJS, usually within the first two months of starting the medication. As shown by the number two duck, cruising around the towed Lambo. It's also crucial to remember that if a patient has a reaction to one of these medications, the others are contraindicated due to risk of cross-reactivity, and the only medication that does not cross-react is Valproate, as shown by our owl with the V-shaped head feathers way away from the other hooks on the right side of the sketch. Now let's hit the high points of the pathogenesis of SJS one last time. Granny Lyson is the major mediator of apoptosis, directly damaging keratinocytes in SJS. This is shown by a granny-lyson granny dropping her soda pop on the ground to remind you of apoptosis. Her fast 95 license plate serves as a hook to remind you of fast ligand, aka CD95L, which binds to the fast death receptor on target keratinocytes. In the fast ligand, fast complex leads to activation of the caspase cascade, ultimately causing apoptosis. To remember caspaces, we've placed some of Granny's old school cassette tapes on the dash of her Lambo. The guy selling tame bugs and jars is to remind you of the pneumonic used for the parameters of the Scorton score, which is a severity of illness score for SJS TEN patients used to predict prognosis. Recall that T is for tacky cardia, A is for age, M is for malignancy, E is for epidermal loss above 10%, B is for bicarbonate under 20, U is for urea, and G is for glucose over 2-10. It's also important to remember that serum bicarb less than 20 is a single most important risk factor for mortality. Lastly, the staff on the ground is to remind you that staff aureus is a common cause of secondary infection in patients with SJS and it commonly leads to death. And the Sumo wrestler selling the tame bugs is to remind you that pseudomonas is another common culprit as well and may be fatal. Well, that's all folks. Now I'm going to get back to practice in my lightsaber, but until the next time I see you, may the force be with you.
