TRANSCRIPT: SLAM Differential Diagnosis
============================================================

And...Hwami! Welcome back. Today, we're going to be covering the histologic slam differential diagnosis, which refers to a differential for spindle cell tumors that appear to be slammed against the dermis. And lucky for us, today just so happens to be the Dermnomonic's Grand Slam Derby. Specifically, the Numonic Slam refers to spindle cell, squamous cell carcinoma, Lyomio sarcoma, atypical fibrosanthoma, and melanoma, specifically spindle cell melanoma. All of the tumors on the stifferential are malignant or are treated as if they're malignant. So, we've chosen to leave the crabs out of the scene. I'm sorry about that. Also, because they're all cancers, they will all have the basic histologic features of high mitotic activity, cellular atypia, and infiltrative growth. But, we also won't have explicit hooks for these, because you already know that. However, for the test, you should definitely know the staining profiles for each diagnosis, so that's what we'll primarily focus on for the purpose of this sketch. Let's get started by discussing spindle cell melanoma, which will be shown in the center by this picture and pictures mount. Clinically, spindle cell melanomas share the same gross features as other melanomas, such as irregular pigmentation, asymmetry, etc., etc. Kind of like the picture's mount, which forms this dark, brown bump, with darker brown areas irregularly and asymmetrically scattered within. If that's not enough to recall melanoma, though, just recall that this picture is really throwing some melons. And I mean literally. Like other melanocyte lesions, spindle cell melanomas sustain positively for a number of markers, but the most reliable and most testable are S-100 and SOX-10. So, to help you remember this, recall the umpire standing behind the picture, holding a speed gun with an S on one side and 100 on the screen for S-100. Boy that picture is really throwing some hot ones. Now, you might also notice the cool team logo design on the UMPS shirt, supporting the royal socks. This socks with a one-sword and zero crown is meant to remind you of SOX-10. These lesions may also stain for HMB-45, but because that's unreliable, it's not really useful, so we've chosen to exclude it. We must have really gotten ahold of that one. Hey, look at those gyrosales, man. He's admiring the hit. This guy selling meat on a spindle is to remind you of Lyomios Arcoma, which is a malignant tumor derived from smooth muscle cells. Typically, it carries a favorable prognosis with low risk for metastasis, kind of like this smacker's prognosis hitting these balls. Oh, for those of you not familiar with the sports lingo, smacker refers to a person at bat, but it should also remind you that Lyomios Arcoma's stain positively for SMA, which stands for smooth muscle actin. But let's make the imagery a little stronger with this smash action bubble. Yeah. In addition to SMA, they also stain positively for Desmond, and whenever we want you to think of Desmond, we'll use a Desmit, like the catchers wearing. Next, let's talk about spindle cell, Squamous cell, Carcinoma, which we'll show on the left with the dugout. Squamous literally means covered or characterized by scales, hence why we've drawn these layer, scale-like shingles to remind you of Squamous cell Carcinoma. The most notable stains for spindle cell, Squamous cell, Carcinoma include P40, Cytocaratin, and P63. So let's add a four flag to demarcate the on-deck badden area, and then a Royals Zero Crown sign on the dugout wall to remind you of P40. And let's support healthy, nutritious choices by including a carrot ad for Carcin. And if nutritious snacks aren't exciting enough, well, just go hang out with this fan who's really getting into the game. But uh, I think you brought the wrong sport in equipment. This fan holding a six golf club and a three-heart sign should help remind you of P63. On the other side of the stadium, we'll cover the last diagnosis, A typical fibrosanthoma. Recall that this is a diagnosis of exclusion, meaning that you have to roll out the diagnoses previously discussed. So, who's sponsoring the Dermnomonic Scranclam Derby? It's only the hottest network on cable television, AFX, as shown by the AFX sign. Though it's a diagnosis of exclusion, there are histologic features that are supportive, such as severe solar elastosis. So, recall this big solar elastosis sun on the AFX sign. Other cardinal features include phomy histocytes and multi-nucleated giant cells. So, we'll slap on this advertisement for another sponsor, Phomy's Car Wash, and it's going to have foam all over it to remind you of foam cells. Ah, check out that team spirit over there. This group of players huddled is to remind you that there may also be scattered multi-nucleated giant cells. Even though the above features are supportive, they're not specific, and the diagnosis will most likely come down to a barrage of staining. Notably, there will be normal histocytic markers like CD68, but the more useful and more specific markers include CD10, CD99, and Vimentin. Vimentin always makes me think of vitamins, and since we're trying to be healthy, hey, let's include another ad, but this time, it'll be for vitamins. And just above it, we're going to add some wild kids as fans. Notice how the girl is holding two 9 balloons to remind you of CD99, and the boy is rocking his royals 1 sword and 0 crown for CD10. All right gang, let's round 3 and bring this sketch home with a quick review of the hooks. This scene depicts the dermed amonics grand slam derby and covers the slam histologic differential diagnosis. Slam stands for spindle cell, squamous cell, carcinoma, lyomiosarcoma, atypical fibrosanthoma, and spindle cell melanoma. These are all spindle cell tumors and considered malignant. Thus, they show features such as high mitotic rate, pleomorphism, and infiltrative growth. So, we've not made specific hooks for these features. spindle cell melanoma is shown in the center with the picture on the melanoma-esque picture's mound throwing melons. In addition to other features of melanoma, which we will be covering in a dedicated sketch, you should know that spindle cell melanomas most reliably stain positively for S100 and Sox 10. To recall these stains, just remember the umpire with his S100 speed gun, and the royal socks logo on a shirt with the 1 sword, 0 crown, and socks sock. The man selling guero meat on a spindle is for lyomiosarcoma, which is a smooth muscle cell tumor hence the meat. It carries a favorable prognosis, much like this batter's prognosis, and stains for SMA and Desmond, as shown by the SMA smacker smash in the ball and the Desmond Desmond. spindle cell, squamous cell carcinoma is shown on the left with the dugout and squamous shingles on it. The most useful stains are P40, cytokaritan, and P63. So, we've shown a four flag and 0 crown in the designated on deck baton area for P40, a keratin carrot, and an overly enthusiastic observer holding a golf club in three heart for P63. AFX is shown on the right with the AFX sponsor sign, and is a diagnosis of exclusion. Histologic features supportive of the diagnosis include solar elastosis, the solar elastosis sun, foam cells, the phomy car wash sign, and multi-nucleated giant cells, the players all huddling together. Despite presence of these features, the diagnosis will rely on staining, and you should know that Vimentin, CD99, and CD10 will be positive in AFX. These are shown by the vitamins ad for Vimentin, the girl holding two nine balloons for CD99, and the boy holding his royals one sword and zero crown for CD10. Alright, I think we really hit that one out of the park, and just in time too, because that hot dog has my name on it. I'll catch you next time.
