TRANSCRIPT: Small Vessel Vasculitis Overview
============================================================

It's the biggest small vessel race of the year and all of our peeps are here. Well, it's that time of the year again and everyone's eager to see who's going to win the world's most famous small vessel boat race. This sketch is about small vessel vasculitis, which is caused by immune complex deposition in post-capillary venules leading to complement activation. Not unlike this beaver dam that's blocked the stream, it's worth remembering that an elevated EF-SR is suggestive of systemic disease and if there's significant complement consumption, this may indicate more extensive systemic disease. Immute complex deposition eventually leads to neutral activation and fibrenoid necrosis of the vessel wall, resulting in hemorrhage and ischemia. In this overview sketch, we'll be focusing primarily on the most common triggers, symptoms, and treatments of small vessel vasculitis. The most important small vessel vasculities that you need to be familiar with are Hinoch-Shallon-Purpera, Chyaglobionemia, Urticarovasculitis, acute hemorrhagic adema of infancy, and erothema elevatum diutinum. To remind you that these four disorders are pathology of small vessels. We've included a group of characters, hooks, here in the foreground. Don't worry, we'll have individual sketches for each of these disorders. First, our Shallon monk and a recurring hook for Hinoch-Shallon-Purpera. He's meditating peacefully and achieved enlightenment. So enlightened, in fact, that he's elevating or levitating off the ground. I hope this will remind you of erothema elevatum diutinum. And look how cool he is, just cool as a cucumber, he might even say, cryocool. He even has to wear his parka to stay warm, this to remind you of Chyaglobionemia. And then check out all the live books. They've even started to gather around him. Ah, Shavasana. For those of you who don't yoga, Shavasana literally means corpse pose. I guess if you sit still long enough to gather love bugs, they'll probably resemble a corpse. In our future sketch titled, Lovebug Motel, LUV Bug Motel, we will discuss Urticarovasculitis, so this hook will be reinforced. Lastly, we've drawn our little infant in his kitty pool for hemorrhagic edema of Invincy. The pool around him is meant to resemble the annular or target toward edemidus hemorrhagic plaques that occur on the cheeks, ears, and upper extremities. And the race is on. Let's start in the upper left-hand corner with a first observer wearing a jersey for his favorite team, the speed floaters. I think they may have copied their logo, but who cared? It's for good cause. His speed floaters jersey should remind you of GCSF, or granular site colony stimulant factor, which can cause small less of usculitis. He's just enjoying a stroll through the park to make sure everything's in order, and to help keep his balance, he's brought his majestic wizard staff. This is a recurring symbol for staff aureus. I know what you're thinking. I'm not a nerd, but that's not fair. At least this guy's been laid. This Hawaiian lady is a recurring symbol for strep pharyngeitis, very common cause of small less of usculitis, especially in children. But seriously, he's probably got a very serious role as a level 5 healer in his D&D group. What good would a mage healer be without his handy dandy first aid? So we'll give him a first aid bag to carry. This first aid bag should remind you of aids or HIV. No nerd jokes there folks. HIV's aren't funny. And we'll see, pointing at a hippo? Hepatitis is a common cause of small less of usculitis. Most notably hepatitis C, more frequently than hepatitis B or hepatitis A. Now, shift your attention to our dog walker, or maybe that a wolf. Well, a wolf is our recurring symbol for leopus. She's been to remind you that autoimmune connective tissue disease can feature small vessel vasculitis. Leopus is probably the most common and notable cause, but you should remember that other diseases such as chagrin, RA, or any other connective tissue disease can also carry the risk of associated small vessel vasculitis. Vasculitis can be seen with a number of malignancies, most notably hematological malignancies. To remind you of this, we'll add a crap chat with the recurring cancer crab on it, and draw a line to the table to remind you of lymphoma. As an added bonus, let's draw this basket of shells to remind you of blood cells. Let's talk about the most common medications associated with this group of disorders. Whether it doesn't you could learn, we chose to emphasize the most common, and also the most likely you'll encounter in practice and on the test. First, let's introduce my favorite character, the sketch, our cephalopod mascot here to promote the races. A squid is our recurring symbol for cephalosporans, but to make him even cooler, let's add some beta sunglasses to him to help you remember that it's not just cephalosporans, but any beta lactaminate biocon general can cause small vessel vasculitis. Keep in mind that almost any antibiotic can cause small vessel vasculitis, and so phomimides are another common cause. So, remind you of phomimates. We've drawn these porta-podies with a recurring TMP SMX tampons dispenser on them. You can never be too safe. Furthermore, though notice that the squid and the dog walker are both on their phones, this flip phone with the af antenna is our recurring symbol for TNF aflain hidders. Another important cause of small vessel vasculitis are insets. As a class, these drugs are widely available and extensively used by patients making them a very common cause of vasculitis. So, remind you of insets. A lot of signback here that reads, no swimming with our recurring sad face, think insad. Sorry kids, we don't want our mage to have to save you from a hippo today. Whoa, that's a legit boat about to be gassed up for the race. The high octane gas is our recurring symbol for acutane. This isn't a super common cause of vasculitis. But since you're watching videos about dermatology, I'll be remiss not to mention it. Oh cool, check out this whipper snap in the middle with this Coke bottle missile. I'm hoping I'm not the only nerd who like to build monorockets out of bottles. But if so, try to remember that this hook is for Levin missile tainted cocaine. Missile, Coke bottle. I'd like to see you come up with a better hook. Now focus your attention on the right side of the sketch. The characters here will remind you of the most common features seen with small vasculitis. Our current symbol for palpable pervera will be purple polka dots. This is probably the most notable dermatologic finding you'll see with small vasculitis and the one you need to be most aware of. In this sketch, we've incorporated them into our Twisterstob blanket with only purple dots. Oops, that ad must have gotten a little too competitive with this Twistering. It seems to have hurt his knee. This should remind you of the arthorologist and my ad algeus that commonly occur with the rash. Well, at least it didn't land in the dog boot next to him. That push should remind you that these patients often get GI distress. And it's too bad he's in so much pain because it looks like his little boy really has to pee. Our reminder of the GI symptom to small vasculitis. Lastly, they'll often have fever. So let's add a jogger back here, break a sweat and put it off some serious heat in the background. Remember, if your patient is showing any of these systemic symptoms, they'll likely need an in-depth evaluation for systemic involvement. Clues that there's more serious systemic involvement are an elevated ESR or significant drop in the complement indicating deposition within the tissues. In general, mild vasculitis can be managed with supportive measures, but let's go over some of the medications you might need to use in mild and severe cases. Remember that inflammation of small vasculitis is primarily neutrophil driven. So the first medications you should consider in moderate cases are coltucine and dapsone inhibitors of neutrophils. So we'll add a retro steam driven boat with a bag of coal here in the background to remind you of coltucine. It's important to note though, the combination of both dapsone and coltucine is better than either alone. So here's a grill guy making some dapsone dim sum on his charcoal grill to remind you that the combination is a better choice. In more severe cases, they'll often need more serious immune suppressive agents. In other words, oral corkosteroids. So to go along with our grill master, we've put our recurring hydrochlor to remind you of systemic steroids. Furthermore, many clinicians will add additional immune suppressive agents, chosen on case-to-case basis based on patients' individual factors. Among these are azithybrine, metatrexate, cyclosporin, and IVIG. So let's add our recurring symbols of an azithyping astronaut, a little boy's toy. Methatrexate T-Rex notice the rampart of that badass biking ship. Cyclosporin mushrooms, shown here growing by the cooler, and lastly the IVIG IV growing on the rail. It's worth noting that IVIG is especially useful in immunocompromised patients. Okay, so that's a lot of hooks to go over in the sketch, so let's repeat them one more time. Small vessel vasculitis, shown with our small vessel boat race. Remember there are several types. Notably, Hienok Shal and Purpera, shown with our Shaolin monk. Urtecare vasculitis, shown with our love bugs. Prioglabulinemia, shown with our cold gear on our monk. Irrathema elevatum diutinum, shown by him elevating or levitating off the ground. And hemorrhagic edema of NPC, shown with our infant in this sort of a demitus pool. The most notable causes of small vessel vasculitis are shown in our sketch starting from the center of the screen to the left hand side. In the upper left hand side you'll remember our hippo. This is for hepatitis. Hepatitis C more commonly than B more commonly than A. And our mage healer standing there pointing at the hippo is holding his A bag to remind you of HIG and HIG. Waring his LAY to remind you of, strep, pharyngeitis, and then holding his wizard's death to remind you of a death aureus. Don't forget his speed floaters t-shirt. To remind you of one of the drugs, brainlessite colony stimulating factor. Other drugs that can cause this are beta lactamanoviobics and sephalus boran, shown with our cephalopod wearing his beta-senglossus. For really any antibiotic can cause this, especially sulfanabiotics. So remember our TMP SMX tampon dispenser, back here to remind you of sulfanabiotics. Other medications that can cause small vessel vasculitis are TNA alpha inhibitors shown with our recurring alpha cell phone. Inced shown with our recurring no-swimming sad face. Levin misal tainted cocaine. Try to remember the coke bottle missile and acutane. Remember that the high octane fuel is for acutane. Several systemic diseases are associated with small vessel vasculitis. Among these are the connective tissue disorders. So remember our dog walker walking her wolf or lupus, but also keep in mind that any connective tissue disease can cause small vessel vasculitis. In addition to autoimmune disease, malignancies also common cause a small vessel vasculitis. So remember our crab stand over here to remind you of cancers, but specifically hematologic malignancies. So we've drawn the lines of the tables remind you of lymphoma, and we've drawn this pile of shells that resemble red blood cells to remind you that it's hematologic malignancies in general. The clinical symptoms of small vessel vasculitis will be shown on the right hand side. Remember our purple dots, twister blanket, to remind you of perpera. I remember that the dad got a little too competitive and heard his knee almost falling in that dog poo. This should remind you of the arthrogyzes, myalgia's GI symptoms. His little boy saying next to him that really has to pee should remind you of the GU symptoms. And the jogger in the background with the heat lines coming off of him breaking a mad sweat should remind you of these patients often have fever. The most cases of small vessel vasculitis are mild. This means they can be managed to support of measures. However, the more moderate and severe cases will require systemic therapies. And we've included hooks in the center of the screen to help remind you of the treatment choices that you have. Remember that for moderate cases, inhibitors and neutrophils such as dapson and colchicine are the most important. So the steam boat with the bag of coal should remind you of colchicine. But also remember that the two used in combination are better. So our grill master here making his dim sum dapson on his charcoal grill should remind you to use dapson and colchicine together if appropriate. Severe cases require more intense immunosuppressive therapy. Remember our recurring hydrocluir here for systemic steroids. Moreover, many clinicians will use additional immunosuppressive therapy in conjunction with the systemic steroids. The choice depends on the patient's individual factors. But among these, you could choose azothiaprine, metatrexate, or cyklsborin or even ibig. So the hooks for these are remember our azothiaprine astronaut, the boys toy, or metatrexate t-rex, the rampart of the Viking ship. The cyklsborin mushrooms growing over here by the cooler and the ibig, ibig growing on the railing. Remember that the ibig is especially useful in immunocompromised patients. Well, that pretty much sums up this sketch. Check out our next few sketches to get more information on the small vessel vasculidities. I really hope that t-rex can pull it off this year.
