TRANSCRIPT: Sturge-Weber Syndrome
============================================================

Oh boy, what a beautiful day here at the Sturgeon Port Fish Market. You can take a look over there and see today's freshly caught fish haul. Looks like the catch of the day is Sturgeon Fish. Well, there's nothing fishy about that, because today we're going to cover Sturgeon Webber Syndrome. Sturgeon Webber Syndrome is a sporadic disorder associated with cutaneous, vascular, neurological and ocular abnormalities. Alright, let me get up out of this fishing chair and let's get started. I'm going to start by introducing our central hook, this big Sturgeon Fish on this market table, which is to remind you of Sturgeon Webber, which is due to somatic mosaic mutations in the gene act gene, which lead to activation of the map K pathway. Recall from the facomotosis Halloween sketch that we used a misspelled drinking and snacks for gene act mutations. So we brought it back. Here is the same drinking and snacks sign still misspelled on our market table to remind you of this again. But let's also put a map of the fishing areas on the table as well to remind you of map K. Oh boy, it looks like this fish market likes to part-tay. Take a look at all that port wine for sale. Some fresh fish and a nice glass of port wine. Oh boy, that sounds nice. What about I'm working right now? Anyways, this port wine is our recurring hook for port wine stains, which is the most important clinical manifestation to recognize in Sturgeon Webber syndrome. Oh boy, looks like this fisherman has already started celebrating his catch of the day. He spilled port wine all over his face, specifically in the V1 distribution of the trigeminal nerve. This is to remind you that patients with Sturgeon Webber syndrome classically present with a port wine stain most commonly involved in the V1 portion of the trigeminal nerve, with the V2 and V3 being less commonly affected. Our fisherman over there is definitely trying to impress the ladies by showing off his trophy fish that he caught. And oh boy, it must be heavy because he is using all his strength. Just look at those hypertrophied muscles that he's using. This is to remind you that Sturgeon Webber patients often have soft tissue and skeletal hypertrophy under their associated capillary malformation. And this guy isn't just all brown. Hey, he's got brains too. Look at that brain like fisherman hat that he's totally rocking. He better lay off the port wine though, because it looks like this hat is about to fall off his head. This lopsided brain hat leaning towards the side of his malformation is to remind you of the Ipsilateral leptomaningeol vascular anomalies associated with Sturgeon Webber syndrome. Capillary venous malformations can result in Ipsilateral hypoprusion of the brain, leading to a range of neurologic symptoms. Don't worry, we're going to cover them later in the sketch. I'm not sure if this guy caught so many fish today wearing those cloudy, ocular sunglasses. These glasses are to remind you of ocular manifestations of Sturgeon Webber syndrome, most importantly, glaucoma, hence why they have the cloudy lenses. Accoma occurs in 30 to 60% of patients with a port wine stain, which involves the eyelid and forehead. So periodic eye exams are vital for these patients. Oh, sweet. There's a tram, and it's stopping here at the markets. All of the passengers can take advantage of the big sale. This tram is to remind you of the cortical calcifications described as tram track lines. Seen on CT scan in many Sturgeon Webber patients, due to chronic hypoxia from hypoprusion, due to the vascular anomalies in the brain, most commonly in the occipital region. To remind you of the calcifications, we've placed this milk advertisement saying, a great source of calcium, on the side of our tram. Even though tests often like to go after identifying tram track calcifications, the most common neurologic manifestation in Sturgeon Webber syndrome is seizures. And so we showed that with our recurring seizure, seizure, salad bar. It's important to remember that these seizures typically present within the first year of life. We've placed our recurring number one sword as a filet knife by our salad bar to remind you of this. Now, we all know that at a fish market, oh boy, things can get wet. So we placed our recurring slow, slippery, one-whet sign near our seizure salad bar. This is to remind you that many of these patients may also present with developmental delay, affecting both motor and cognitive skills. Oh, oh no. It looks like our waiter serving up seizure salads has gotten a little bit flustered. He spilled port wine in a V1 distribution bilaterally. This is to remind you that Sturgeon Webber syndrome patients who present with bilateral facial port wine stains in the V1 distribution often have a worse prognosis with increased risk of seizures and developmental delay. Which is why we have this man serving the seizure, seizure, salad, and standing close to our slow, slippery, one-whet sign. Furthermore, it's also important to recognize that these patients may also present with stroke-like episodes with contralateral hemiparasis or hemiplegia. So we've placed an ore leaning against the counter so that people can take some strokes out on the fishing pond. Oh, whoa. Now this isn't just any fish market. This fish market has a photo booth where you can take a picture with a sword. Oh, how neat is that? And it says, a spire with a picture of a camera and a sword. Is this some kind of pirate recruiting event? Ah, who cares. I'm using it. Ah, shucks. It looks like it's out of order. Anyway, this sign is to remind you that neuroimaging is very imperative for Sturgeon Webber syndrome patients since there are so many potential neurological manifestations. Neuroimaging should be considered in any child at risk for Sturgeon Webber syndrome and is recommended to be done at one year old or older to roll out leptomaninjial involvement as represented by our number one sword for one years of age. Lastly, it's important to know that prophylactic aspirin administration may reduce the frequency of stroke-like episodes and seizures as shown by a recurring hook for aspirin or a spire sign and the out of order sign with our recurring NSAID sad face. Alright, let's reel this sketch in and review the...the hooks. This sketch depicting the Sturgeon port covers the key features and details regarding Sturgeon webber syndrome which is a sporadic genome dermatosis due to mutations in the G-NAC gene as shown by the Sturgeon fish for Sturgeon Webber and the drinkin and snacks sign for G-NAC. The most notable cutaneous manifestation is of course Port wine stains, hence the name of the market and the presence of Port wine for sale. Classically, the Port wine stain occurs in the distribution of the trigeminal nerve, most commonly in the V1 distribution. So we've shown the fishermen spill in Port wine on his face in a V1 distribution, but remember that the V2 or V3 distribution may also be affected. It's worth noting that in recent studies, it's been shown that the best clinical predictor of a patient having SWS is involvement of the forehead area which includes the eyelid and bilateral involvement of the V1 distribution. Also, remember that these lesions may also be associated with underlying muscle hypertrophy, which is why a fisherman looks so darn strong. Unfortunately, the vascular malformations may also involve the CNS in the form of leptomaninjial involvement which causes decreased perfusion with resultant seizures and strokes. These are shown by the fishermen with a cold brain-like hat, the seizure, Caesar salad bar, and the bowdor respectively. For clinic, it's important to remember that the seizures typically begin within one year of age, hence the one-sword filenife. And if you suspect a patient having sturgeweb or syndrome, you need to screen for neurological involvement. For the boards, they like to go after what you might see on the imaging of a head, and we've included this photo booth with a spire and a one-sword on it to remind you to get neuroimaging at one year old. And the tram with the milk advertisement should remind you that you may find tram track cortical calcifications. The spire written on the side and the out-of-order sign with the NSAID sad face is to remind you that prophylaxis with aspirin may help reduce the frequency of stroke-like episodes that can cause hemiparasis and hemiplegia. Lastly, remember, ocular involvement is common in the form of glaucoma, so we're called that the fisherman is wearing the cool ocular glasses with cloudy lenses. Alright, I'm not a fishin' for compliments or anything, but I really do want to hear your feedback, so hit me up with some. And if you've been enjoying Dermnomonics, then feel free to share it with a friend. I promise, I won't mind. Until then, I'll uh catch you next time.
