TRANSCRIPT: Subacute Cutaneous Lupus Erythematosus (SCLE)
============================================================

We actually have a really nice Saturday planned. We're going to hit up Wolfsavings Club and buy some wallpaper, maybe get some flooring. Maybe we'll go to bedbath and be on. I don't know. I just don't know if we'll have time. Hey guys, welcome back. This sketch titled Wolfsavings Club takes place at Wolfsavings Club, where there's some serious excitement going on because we're going to be covering the subject of subacute cutaneous lupus or SCLE for short. Recall that a wolf is our recurrent hook for lupus and the savings club is to remind you that this is SCLE specifically. Notably, around 30 to 50% of patients with SCLE will go on to meet criteria for systemic lupus, but most usually only have mild disease. To help recall this, remember the sign that reads 30 to 50% off. Clinically, this disorder presents with two variants which overlap significantly, papula squamous and anular. The papula squamous form presents with sore assiform plaques, often in a photo-distributed pattern, and our recurrent hook for psoriasis or sore assiform lesions will be these two palm trees with a hammock. Pfft, talk about a site for sore eyes, huh? And this guy over here, well he's already found the sweet spot in the hammock. This how he's wearing a recurrent photosensitivity umbrella hat to remind you that these lesions are photosensitive. The anular lesions of SCLE are also papula squamous, but are arranged to be anular or polycyclic in nature favor the trunk, upper extremities, and lateral face. We'll show these features first with these anular to polycyclic holohoops up against the palm tree. Both subtypes are more common in white women and sun exposed areas, which we'll show with our next character here in the back. Notice how she's a white woman and has on a very stylish outfit. Can you see the anular designs on her shirt and those hip hoop earrings? This is to remind you that lesions have a predilection for white women on the trunk and lateral face. On hot dog, now that is a ball and stroller, or should I say a ROLA? This red ROLA is to remind you that these patients have a very high likelihood of having anti-row or SSA antibodies up to 90 percent. And to a lesser degree, they'll have anti-law bodies. Of note, anti-row antibodies are believed to be pathogenic in SCLE, and if positive and a pregnant woman, there is a high risk of transmission to the baby and resultant neonatal lupus. To remind you of this, we've drawn an adorable baby in the red ROLA stroller. The classic codecrome of neonatal lupus is of a baby with raccoon eye, erythema, or rash, kind of like this baby's superhero mask that his mom gave him for an adventure to the store. The other notable features of neonatal lupus will be shown here in the front of the story as a form palm trees. The most notable and worrisome complication to know is third degree heart block. So let's add a blockade with three cones and yellow caution tape. In case that isn't enough, we'll add a hydroxychloroquine hydrant, spewing water, and form in a heart-shaped puddle. Recall that for adults with SCLE, hydroxychloroquine and photo protection are the treatment of choice, but in neonatal lupus, the cutaneous features are transient and resultant with time. All patients can benefit from topical corticosteroids, so we'll add a hydro water bottle here for topical steroids. However, if the baby has cardiac involvement, this must be treated with a pacemaker, so recall the extension cord sparking here on the ground as a reminder for a cardiac pacemaker. Oh my! What on earth is going on over here? This whole again, who's been arrested for shoplifting, is where we'll discuss the classic histologic features and other notable board fodder. First, notice how he seems to have hurt his knee being detained. In case it's not obvious, we've added some red pain bolts. This is to remind you that our thrallges are the most common systemic manifestation of SCLE. Furthermore, notice how the perp has a three heart tattoo and is being put into these handcuffs that looks suspiciously like the number eight. The three heart and eight handcuffs are to remind you that SCLE is associated with HLA DR3 and HLA BA. Note that HLA BA is the strongest association, hence the strong steel handcuffs. I wonder what this guy felt was worth the risk. It looks like a vacuum, some laundry detergent, limes, and chocolate chip cookies. Man, this leaf sucks. These hooks are to remind you of the classic histologic features, namely vacuola interface, which is the vacuum, increased mucin, the blue mucin goo, lymphocytes, the pile of limes, and plasma cells, which are the chocolate chip cookies. Last but not least, let's talk about the medications that can induce SCLE. These will be shown on the right hand side of the sketch where we've also added this drug store. You should know that the most common is hydrochlorothiazide or HCTZ for short, and our recurring hook for HCTZ will be a turkey thigh, like this one that we put on the wall. Other medications that have been associated include Turbinefin, Grisio-Folven, NSADS, calcium channel blockers, DOS-A-Taxle, ACE inhibitors, TNF-Alpha inhibitors, Proton-Pump inhibitors, Toclodipine, and Stattons. So notice that we put in a maintenance man who's using a high-powered Turbinefin fan leaf blur, and he's wearing a cool ACE Ventura-looking ACE inhibitor shirt. Grisio-Folven is shown with a greasy oven, Toclodipine with a Ticol-Mielmo, PPIs with a pretzel, TNF-Alpha inhibitors with a TNF-Alpha-Sulfome, DOS-A-Taxle with a sign that reads 0% sales tax, calcium channel blockers, and NSADS with a sign that reads no cats with the CA emphasize, and our recurring NSADS-A-T face. And finally, the advertisement on the drug store for Koala-Kush to remind you of Stattons. Recall that Stattons work by inhibiting HMG-COA reductase. Phew, that was a lot. Alright, let's sum up the sketch. This sketch covers subacute, cutaneous lupus, shown by Wolf's Savings Club, and its most commonly cutaneous and mild, but can progress to systemic lupus in 30 to 50% of cases. That is shown by the 30 to 50% off sign. Clinically, it presents in white women with papula-squeem misleasions, often in annular arrangements over the trunk and lateral face, and our photosensitive. This is shown by the site for sore eyes, psoriasis palm trees, the man relaxing in the hammock where in a photosensitive umbrella hat, the annular hula hoops, and the white woman with the stylish annular outfit, and hoop earrings. These patients usually have anti-row antibodies, sometimes anti-law, which is shown by the red rola stroller. Ro is believed to be pathogenic, and if positive and pregnant women, there is a risk of neonatal lupus, recall the baby in the stroller. The classic presentation is with periorbital erythema, like the superhero mask on the baby, but you need to worry about third degree heart block, which is shown by the blockade, and heart-shaped puddle. If there is cardiac involvement, they'll need a pacemaker, so remember the live wire. The cutaneous findings of neonatal lupus are self-limited, but topical steroids can help in all forms and is shown with the topical steroids hydro water bottle. For adult patients, the treatment of choice is photo-protection and hydroxychloroquine, the umbrella hat, and hydroxychloroquine hydrant. We should recall that our througes are the most common systemic manifestation, so remember the shoplifter heard in his knee. Furthermore, there's an association with HLAB8 and a lesser association with HLADR3, so recall the eight handcuffs and the three heart. Hisology classically has vacuola interface with increased mucin, lymphocytes, and plasma cells, as shown by the vacuum, blue mucin goo, limes, and chocolate chip cookies that he was trying to steal. The CLE can be caused by a number of medication, but the most common is HCTZ, which we showed with the turkey thigh. Others include terbenapheem, asinhibitors, grizziofolven, teclotapene, ppi's, tnf alpha inhibitors, doss-ataxel, calcium channel blockers, NSADS, and statins. Recall the terbenapheem fan leaf blower, the asin-terra asinhibitor shirt, grizziofolven greasy oven, teclotapene tickle meelmo, ppi pretzel, tnf alpha inhibitor cell phone, doss-ataxel 0% sales tax sign, CCB no cat sign with the NSADS ad face, and statin koala. Alright, you got it all? Good, because I really gotta go finish my shop, and I'll catch you next time.
