TRANSCRIPT: Sweet's Syndrome (Acute Febrile Neutrophilic Dermatosis)
============================================================

Welcome to the coolest place in the block to P-A-R-T-Y because I got it. This is Sweet Arcade. Here we'll cover the presenting signs, symptoms, causes, and treatments for the neutrophilic dermatosis called sweet syndrome, also known as acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis. Neutrophilic dermatosis are a group of disease that often represent a cutaneous manifestation of a systemic process. In one examined under histology, they all prominently feature neutrophilic infiltrates. In dermatomontics, we use a symbol of an ant to represent neutrophils. So all the sketches featured in this section will all prominently feature ants or an ant in some form. And as we get started in this sketch, you'll notice this cool, yet terrifying ants video game logo on the wall. This logo should serve to remind you that we are dealing with neutrophilic dermatosis. As I said previously, this group of diseases is often a manifestation of a larger, underlying process. When you identify sweet syndrome, this should prompt further evaluation. Sweet syndrome is often divided into five major subtypes. Classic, which accounts for approximately 65% cases. Cancer associated, which accounts for approximately 15% inflammatory, which accounts for about 13% drug induced, which is around 5% and lastly pregnancy, which accounts for about 2%. Well, not the most common cause. Medication review is always the first step when evaluating sweet syndrome because it's relatively quick and easy to review the patient's medications. Take a look at this corner. Lasers. This has to be the coolest game I've ever seen. I mean, who doesn't like lasers? A laser will be our recurring hook for hydrozene. Furthermore, the game's manufactured by Atari, which hopefully makes you think of Atra or all trans retinoic acid. Ah poor kid. He looks so angry. And whoa, potty mouth, he must be furious. If you recall from our sketch, Grandpa's Big Party, the character's furious. It's a hook for a furocimide or lasex. While lasers is probably the coolest game, I'm far more excited to see what happens next in the race on TV. Shift your focus to the right side. You'll notice that there's a TV showing the speed floaters race. Their logo looks awfully familiar. This speed floaters SF symbol was introduced in our small vessel boat race sketch. And it's a recurring hook for GCSF and GMCSF. Remember that GCSF is probably the most notable cause and also probably the most testable. So even if you don't like the speed floaters, just remember the hook. All right, I didn't come to switch arcade to watch TV. I came here to, whoa! This had a cool bead curtain. I always wanted a bead curtain as a kid. It's too bad this bead curtain has the fish logo on it. This fish logo is going to serve as recurring hook for minocycline. Fish, minnow. Okay, I guess my mom was right. Only hippies have bead curtains. All dreams die someday, but at least it's a cool way to hide the bathrooms. How do I know it's the bathrooms you ask? I guess it's just an assumption, but why else would they put a TMP SMX tampon on the spin-strum of the wall right there? I guess it could just be because I want you to remember that bathroom can cause sweet syndrome. That about does it for the most notable medications, but once you rule out medications, you need to evaluate for more concerning causes. For instance, if you had to pick one association, you might guess cancer. And you'd be right. So let's give our furious guy a cool grab belt buckle. While there are many cancers that could cause sweet syndrome, the most notable and most testable is AML. So after you're done admiring his cool belt buckle, shift your focus up just as midge and take a gander at his glamorous amulet. Now, usually I wouldn't be a splitter, especially when it's between hematologic malignancies, but when there's a fact that's calmly tested, I feel it's worth differentiating. So when you need to remember AML, I'll use this AMULET to signify this. Like many other neutrophilic dermatosis, sweet syndrome may occur in the setting of inflammatory disease, namely inflammatory bowel disease. To help you remember this, we'll insulate the cables in the wall here from our laser scheme with this kind of bowel shaped wire wrapping. Baldardash! Is that a fire? Remember, flaming bowel equals inflammatory bowel disease. In addition to inflammatory bowel disease, you should know that sweet syndrome can be seen with many inflammatory autoimmune conditions, especially autoimmune connective tissue diseases. If lupus was really special, we might have given someone a seeing eye wolf, but since it's really just any connective tissue disorders, we've included these Legos or connective tissue blocks here on the table. And I'm sure you've all noticed by now that the table is a hippo table. But wouldn't some floating Legos look just a little weird? Well, I guess it serves as a good segue to our next group of, quote, inflammatory conditions. The hippocanolar mean one thing, hepatitis. In this case, hepatitis C. Though this is becoming a very rare cause to the new treatment options for hepatitis C in the US. If you're not a parent yet, let me be the first to tell you, always bring a first aid kit to a party. And boom, here it is. HIV isn't a major cause, but since it's become a prevalent disease, you should be aware of it. Because it's fun and I couldn't resist, look at this pest game. If you can guess what it stands for, I'll let you design a hook. I'm kidding, because I'm going to tell you, duh. The pest game is to remind you of your sinneapestus. On a serious note, I'm always open for hook suggestions, so if you got one, let me know. Alright, the last two causes we're going to roll up into one character, is soon to be mom at the table. The fact that she's pregnant should serve to remind you that pregnancy is an association that you have to know. And because she's really digging this party atmosphere, let's give her a cool stripy coccale to exude the mood. Now for the easy part. Anytime you hear sweets, you should think juicy. The lesions of sweet are classically described as juicy red papules and plaques. I imagine a plump, juicy, sweet red cherry when I hear this. And it appears, so does our expectant mother. This bowl of cherry should remind you of the classic lesions, but in some instances, the lesions may present with oral lesions or bowl lesions that can leave painful ulcerations. Interestingly, these lesions occur more commonly when associated with an eligmentcy. Let's look back to our kid with the crab buckle and the amulet. Now given this bowl is ballooned and will behold, this should remind you of the bowl's ulcerative lesions. And just try to remember that he's a potty mouth to remember that oral lesions. Of course, you've got a systemic disorder causing rampant neutral activation. You probably have systemic symptoms, right? Duh, that's why another name for sweet syndrome is acute, febrile, neutral phyloch dermatosis. And this kid here in the front right, he knows all about burning up a fever. It's pretty obvious what those fever lines he's got going on. Man, can he dance? Better be careful though, or... ooooooh. Ah, yep. He's hurt his knee, it's pretty obvious. But in case it's not, here are some painbolts. In addition to arthoralgia and fever, she know that these patients can have ocular involvement, including conjunctivitis, episcleritis, and erudiosyclitis. So, if you'll remember, we like to show a character wearing these ball and red shades, trips at ocular involvement. He's just too cool. No wonder he got invited. I wear my so glassy leather neck. Nope. Now that you know you're way around the place, let's briefly talk about the treatments for sweet syndrome, which we'll show on this back table. The most important to know, and the one that's used in the diagnostic criteria, is systemic steroids. And what better setting for a cooler full of soda than a party at an arcade? As a reminder, our hydrochlorous recurring symbol for systemic steroids, you should know if it's sweet, it will respond and rapidly. Dapsone dimsum. I never got anything but pizza. Dapsone makes sense, right? If you want to stop a neutrophilic termotosis, target neutrophils. Can you guess what other medication might probably be used? Sorry, culture scene. And while I bet the birthday boys aren't happy about getting a lump of colas in present, I think it's quite a gift. It provides heat, it cooks food, it can be used to draw, and it stops neutrophils in their tracks. Lastly, well, it's not commonly used. Potassium iodide can also be used to treat sweet syndrome. The other name for potassium iodide is a lugal, which is especially relevant in this sketch, because a Luigi looking action figure is a perfect gift for a video game enthusiast. All right, let's quickly wrap this sketch up with medications known to induce sweet syndrome. In the back left, you see our lasers game by Atari, which should remind you of hydrozyne and all trans retinoic acid respectively, or atra. The furious guy saying next to the laser's game is to remind you of furocum might, just remember you're so angry you lost that game. On the opposite side, there's a television that looks like it's covering the speed floaters. And below it, the hallway is covered with this hippie bee doorway with a fish for minicycling. On the wall next to the bathroom is our TMP SMX tampon dispenser. You also need to be aware that systemic diseases are associated sweet, namely cancers, as shown by the cancer crab in our furious guy's belt buckle, and is amulet. Remember that the amulet is to remind you of AML, which is the most commonly associated malignancy. Recall that along the wall, the power cord bundle, which kind of looks like a colon, has caught fire. This should remind you of inflammatory bowel disease. Also recall that sweet syndrome occurs in the setting of autoimmune connective tissue diseases, which is represented by the connective tissue blocks, or the Lego looking pieces on the table. Several infectious ideologies can also trigger sweet syndrome, including hepatitis C, HIV, usinia pestis, and group B strap, which are represented by the hippo table, HIV A bag, pestis pest game, and the Hawaiian laser respectively. Recall that the woman wearing the lay is pregnant. This is to remind you that pregnancy is another common trigger. The systemic manifestations of sweets are shown with our kid dancing, including arthraogeos, the pain bulls-wise knee, fever, the heat waves, and ocular symptoms, his cool red sunglasses. The chitanius features include juicy red, edemidus, papules, and plaques, reminiscent of these juicy red cherries. Recall that the oral erosion and bulls lesions are more common in the malignancy associated sweetes, so we've given this guy wearing our cancer swag, a cool balloon animal. Lastly, let's talk about the treatments. Sweetes will respond quickly to steroids. That's one of the diagnostic criteria. Also know that you can treat it with medications that target neutrophils, such as dapzone or culturine. Lastly, potassium iodide or lugol, shown by our Luigi character, can be used to treat it, but it's not very common, and it's a little expensive. That's it, we'll catch you at the next sketch, where we'll cover Pio de Magangranosum.
