TRANSCRIPT: Syphilis and Zoon Balanitis
============================================================

It is finally the weekend. You know that means...Zoon Neat Toons! Yeah! In this sketch, we'll be covering the histologic features of two disorders that share remarkable histological overlap and sometimes clinical overlap. Zoon's Balladonitis, aka Plasma Cell Balladonitis, and syphilis. Note syphilis is often referred to as the Great Mimicor, clinically, and the same goes for histological findings which morph and vary depending on the stage 1 through stage 3. In general, both of these disorders present with papula squamous or erosive lesions on the genitals while on histology are characterized by plasma cells and variable interface change. Alright, that's enough prep. Let's watch some tunes! Now for starters, both disorders may have like annoyed interface, so notice our pink shag carpet and lime green band to set this very retro scene. And on the right, notice how Zoon Neat Toons is playing. This will represent Zoon's Balladonitis, which is a plasma cell disorder usually effect in the glands penis of uncircumcised men. Clinically, it manifests as tender superficial erosion or ulceration. After a minute of this, we'll add a conspicuously penis-shaped couch with an ulcer-like tear in the cushion. On histology, plasma cells should be everywhere, just like how our plasma cell chocolate chip cookies are everywhere on the ground and the couch. Once you recognize the biopsy is from a mucosal surface, the presence of interface and abundant plasma cells, the differential is pretty limited. A hopeful feature to arrive at the diagnosis of Zoon's is the presence of diamond-shaped keratinocytes in the epidermis, a feature shown by the classic retro-diamond-shaped patterns on the couch. Now, in speaking of the couch, those cushions look a little funny, huh? Kinda like sponges? That's because Zoon's generally displays some degree of spungiotic dermatitis. The other entity that should cross your mind once seeing a plasma cell dominant disorder on a mucosal surface is syphilis. If you'll recall from our previous sketch, we depicted T-paladum, the causative agent of syphilis, with paladum palis. And we brought back that hook in the form of a child's playhouse, or play palace, in this case at least. In addition to being on the differential for mucosal lesions and plasma cell-rich disorders, syphilis also falls on the busy dermis differential, which will represent with the busy being our sketches. In this case, we'll represent this by including a busy bee scooter for the kids. Note that syphilis is often very challenging both clinically and histologically due to the numerous stages of presentation with a variety of resulting histologic patterns. This includes lichenoid interface, spungiotic dermatitis, and soriasiform dermatitis, which can coexist in the same section. While it may be difficult to identify syphilis on histology, I find it helpful to learn the differentials for patterns, identify the patterns on histology, and then try to identify the overlap to arrive at the correct diagnosis. So you should also know that syphilis additionally falls on the noots in the horn differential, meaning there may be neutrophils in the stratum corneum. We'll use a rhino with a big horn, like this one over here on the wall, any time that we want you to remember something on the noots in the horn differential. To remind you of the other various patterns that can be seen in syphilis, remember the lychenoid chag rug and limemgreen band. But also, note how we've depicted the dead vacuum in the left hand side. To remind you of the other various patterns that can be seen in syphilis, remember the lichenoid chag rug and limemgreen band. But also, note how we've depicted the dead vacuum in on the left hand side. That's to remind you, vacular interface might also be seen. This guy looks like he's working hard and his torn his pants. Just look at that crotch, a subtle reminder of the clinical presentation of a genital ulcer. You know, it's good to see this guy cleaning up after himself, but he's obviously not very good at it, because he's just standing on the vacuum hose. Recall that encyclists endothelial swelling causes the superficial vessels to close, which and my opinion is hard to appreciate. But one trick is to notice the apparent absence of vessels due to swelling that closes the lumen and makes them hard to appreciate. Kind of like the closed vacuum hose. Now once he finishes vacuuming, he'll need to clean off that awkwardly tall table. The skinny long legs of this table are to remind you of the skinny, long, sexy legs like reedy ridges of secondary syphilis. The cookies on top of the table are again to remind you of plasma cells. Oh, no. If he's playing on having guests, he should replace those cookies, because they're attracting ants. Recall that ants are hooked for neutrophils and encyclists, and most infectious diseases. Nutrophils are generally present. He better also take some time to use that sponge to wipe everything down, otherwise the ants will become permanent residents. Plymouth syphilis may also display spungiotic dermatitis. Alright, let's take a quick minute to talk about differences in the histology between primary, secondary, and tertiary syphilis. There's often a lot of overlap, but for the test, it's fair game. In primary, delusions are generally on mucosal skin, generally ulcerated, the shankra, spirochetes are usually present, and there are lots of plasma cells among the mixed infiltrate. As it progresses to secondary syphilis, delusions can occur on any surface of skin, and are more sore assiform or hypercarototic, with endothelial swelling, neutrophils, and occasionally granulomas in older lesions. Note that spirochetes are only present in the skin in around one third of cases. Interniary syphilis, the epidermis is often normal, but may be atrophic or ulcerated. Turbuculoid granulomas may be present, but spirochetes are almost never seen. Endothelial swelling is seen in all stages. Well, I hope Zuni Tunes finishes up soon, because the game is about to start. Oh, what game you ask? The Giants game, of course! When we use a Giants jersey like this one, it's because we want you to remember that Giants cells and granulomas may be present. Now, let's wrap this sketch up with a review of the hooks. This sketch covers Zunes Balladonitis, aka Plasma Cell Balladonitis, and syphilis, which can share histological and clinical overlap, and are represented by Zuni Tunes and the T-Palladum Palace respectively. In general, both present with papillus squamous or erosive lesions on the genitals, with histology of plasma cells, and variable interface change. Our hook for plasma cells is chocolate chip cookies, hence why we've included plasma cell chocolate chip cookies all over the sketch. On the right is where we've depicted Zunes. The couch is shaped like a penis with a tear in the cushion corresponding to the glands, and made of yellow spongy material to remind you that biopsy is generally from the mucosal penis and often has spongiotic dermatitis. Interface is often present, hence why there's a green, like annoyed band going around the scene and a pink shag interface carpet on the floor. The last key feature is the presence of diamond-shaped keratinocytes in the epidermis, which is represented by the sweet retro diamond pattern on the couch. Remember that syphilis should also pop into your head when you see a mucosal biopsy with plasma cells, especially with the history of a genital ulcer, but it is still tricky both clinically and histologically because of the numerous stages of presentation. The palladum play palace should remind you that the left side of the sketch is dedicated to syphilis. This is also a biopsy of a mucosal lesion with numerous plasma cell rich and falls in the busy dermis, newtons in the horn, interface, and spongiotic-derm differential. Remember these differentials by recalling the plasma cell's chocolate chip cookies, the busy bee scooter, the rhino with his big horn, the like annoyed band and pink shag carpet, and the cleaning sponge under the table. The table is drawn to be awkwardly tall with long, skinny, sexy legs to represent the elongated reedy ridges of sore assiform acanthosis commonly referred to as sexy legs of syphilis. Remember the neutrophil ants crawling up to the cookies and the giant's jersey on the wall, because the infiltrate often has neutrophils because it's an infectious disease and granulomatis changes with giant cells in later stages. The dad vacuuming is to remind you of vacuola or interface, and the red hose resembling a blood vessel that he's stepping on is to remind you of endothelial swelling, which is present in all stages of syphilis. But it's hard to appreciate, and I find that I usually recognize this feature by noticing an absence or diminish presence of vessels. As a quick reminder, the stages of syphilis progress from a plasma cell, neutrophil, and spirochete rich infiltrate and progress towards granulomatis inflammation with fewer plasma cells and fewer spirochetes. As a quick review, though, you should know that in primary syphilis, lesions generally occur on mucosal skin, or ulcerated, and typically has spirochetes in addition to a lot of plasma cells. Endothelial swelling is also present. In secondary syphilis, lesions can be on any surface and are more sore assiform or hypercarototic with endothelial swelling, neutrophils, and granulomas in older lesions. These are only present in about one third of cases. Interniary syphilis, the epidermis is often normal, but may be atrophic or ulcerated. There may be tuberculoid granulomas, but generally no spirochetes. Endothelial swelling is seen again. Well, that's all folks. Be sure to follow us on social media, like our videos, and post comments to help us grow.
