TRANSCRIPT: Syphilis
============================================================

Hello, and welcome back. In today's sketch, we're going to be talking about Cifilus while visiting Paladum Palace, which is owned by King Trepanema. Before we begin, just a quick PSA, please, practice safe sex. You know, I remember one time when I was, uh, actually, no, this isn't the time. Let's just get started. Ah, so here we are. This is Paladum Palace, and it's owned by King Trepanema. All that Cifilus is a sexually acquired chronic infection caused by Trepanema Paladum. Also, recall that Trepanema is a Spirakeet, which appears as a corkscrew or twisted shape under the microscope. Well, well, well, wouldn't you know it? King Trepanema is rolling out the red welcome banners, just for a little while. These twisted red banners will help you remember that Trepanema Paladum is a Spirakeet bacterium, and we've made them this royal red color to remind you that it's gram negative, meaning that it will stain red with gram stain. Now I want you to know that it's a rare circumstance being allowed in the palace. Normally, King Trepanema doesn't want any peasants anywhere near his castle, hence why he has a super cool mode separating the palace from the common people. The mode will serve to separate the features of congenital Cifilus, which is on the opposite side of the mode, the endemic non-venereal Trepanema Toesies within the mode, and the forms of primary, secondary, and tertiary Cifilus on the side where the castle is. Early congenital Cifilus is defined as those presenting with symptoms at less than two years of age, and those with late congenital Cifilus often present with symptoms after the age of two. So we'll place our recurring number two swan cruise and around on the ground between our two characters. Oh, look at this cute little baby who has early congenital Cifilus. He's chowin' down on that sausage, and the sausage juice is just dripping all down his face. The sausage in the baby's hand should remind you of Dacta Lightus, aka sausage fingers. It's a common manifestation of early congenital Cifilus, and the juice dripping from his face should remind you of snuffles, which presents with copious amounts of nasal mucus discharge. Also, notice how his bib has a stain that looks a little like a liver. This is to remind you that liver dysfunction is another common early feature of congenital Cifilus in the form of hepatitis. These patients often present with osteocondritis, which may result in a phenomenon known as pseudo-paralysis of parrot. That is where the patient does not move their extremities due to intense pain. To remind you of this, we'll add some red pain bolts around his leg, and remember that he's just sittin' there, not really moving around all that much. That will remind you of pseudo-paralysis. Whoa, now let's get over here. He is too cool for school. Check out those sunglasses. This kid's sittin' on the other side of the number two swan will represent late congenital Cifilus. He's wearing his recurrent, ocular sunglasses to remind you that these patients often present with interstitial caratitis, which can cause corneal ulcers and opacities. As an added bonus, I'm gonna bedazzle these glasses a little bit. I'll be using some yellow jewels like the ones from Beshets Sketch to remind you of corneal ulcerations. This kid definitely stole some malberries from King Trepanema's garden, and he's just munching away at them. He got them all over his face, especially around the corners of his mouth. Come on seriously, can someone get this dude anapkin? The malberries should remind you of malberry molars, which present as multiple rounded rudimentary cusps on the permanent first molars, and the malberry streaks on the mouth should remind you of regaids, which present as radial, peri, or official scars at the sites of previous fishers usually effectin' the mouth, nose, eyes, or anus. Woo, not only does this kid have super cool sunglasses, he's also got a peg leg. You know, I've got a hutch, I mean hunch, but he may be an undercover pirate. Horses should remind you of Hutchinson teeth, aka peg-shaped teeth, that often are a sign of late congenital syphilis. Oh my, what a majestic steed that he has. And it looks like him and his horse are ready to storm pallidum castle in style. The horse is all suited up with his saddle, shin guards, and… uh… headphones? There is definitely something suspicious going on here. The horse with the saddle, shin guards, and headphones should remind you of saddle-nose deformity, saber-shins, aka anterior tibial bowin, and neural deafness in late congenital syphilis. Lastly, recall that late congenital syphilis corresponds to tertiary syphilis in an adult, and it's not infectious, hence this don't spread the plague sign, with our recurring three heart on it over by the horse. Now, let's quickly cover the endemic non-venereal treponema toses, which will be placed within the moat. These diseases are caused by organisms that are morphologically and antigenically identical to treponema pallidum, but are technically different species. The primary route of transmission is person to person via skin, mucus membrane, or possibly foamite contact. Woah, King treponema is taking this whole moat thing pretty seriously. He's even got a shark in there. Ooh, look at those jaws! The shark with the big jaws should remind you of yaws, which is a three-stage infection caused by t-palidum pertinue, which is the most severe form of endemic treponema toses. To remind you of t-palidum pertinue, we've placed our pertinue canoe on the edge of the moat, and notice how the canoe is decorated in a fun tropical theme. This is because it most often occurs in warm tropical climates and affects children under 15 years of age. It primarily occurs as a painless papule that expands and ulcerates on a lower extremity, known as the mother yaw. Then it may develop several smaller lesions called daughter yaws, and in the third stage, the lesion may become necrotic and ulcerate, leaving to forming scars. So we've placed our shark face in the children in the sketch to remind you that it primarily occurs in children, and him taking a large, destructive bite out of the side of the canoe to remind you of the deforming lesions. Another form of endemic treponema typically found in south and central America is known as pinta. It typically affects the skin exclusively and is caused by treponema charatium. These patients present with macules and papules with an erythomatis halo commonly on the lower extremities, which may later change color to slate blue, gray, or black. So we've placed our south American themed red, blue, and black piñata floating in the moat. Furthermore, the piñata is shaped like a car to remind you of treponema charatium. Lastly, endemic syphilis, aka bejelle, is caused by tea, paladum, and demicum, and commonly occurs in North Africa and Southeast Asia. These patients often present with an inconspicuous papule or ulcer in the mouth or on the nipple of breastfeeding women in the primary stage. The secondary stage is similar to venereal syphilis, but mucosal disease predominates. So to remind you of the nipples of breastfeeding women and mucosal lesions, we've placed this super cute bikini top with lipstick kiss marks on it, floating in the moat by the drawbridge, where we'll be describing secondary syphilis later on in the sketch. I guess no one told her that there are sharks in the moat before she went for a dip. Hmm, poor girl. Now let's move on to cover the other forms of syphilis, which will be shown on the drawbridge. Oh, good god, man. It's like the castle guard also thinks the peg-legate hoodlum is up to no good, and he's raising his number one sword. Which of course means that he will represent the features of primary syphilis. Ooh, it does look like he's a little too late though. Our sneaky fob noodle has stabbed him right in the plum tree shaker with a shank. That does not look good. This is to remind you of the primary lesion of syphilis, a shankra, which presents as a well-defined and indirated ulcer, commonly on the genitals, and typically appears anywhere from 10 to 90 days after infection, but usually around 3 weeks. It is often accompanied by enlarged regional lymph nodes, so we've placed our recurrent lymphed enepathy ear in like knots hanging from his belt near his groin. Oh, good god. It looks like a beggar has snuck past our guard and has just totally perpetuated this filthy swan infestation. This beggar will represent features of secondary syphilis as shown by the two swan. Notably, the secondary stage of syphilis is characterized by dissemination and multiplication of the microorganism in different tissues. This can occur simultaneously or within 6 months after healing of the primary shankra. These patients often present with prodromal signs, including fever, malaise, and arthraljas, shown by a beggar totally burning up in the heat and the pain bolts coming from his knees. Well, despite his pain, he's not letting that stop him from feeding this feather devil. Seriously, you feed him once and they are never going to leave you alone. Anyways, these bits of orange and brown crumbs that he's got scattered all over him and a big ol' pile in his hand should remind you of the papula squamous generalized rash classically with papules and plaques on the palms and soles. I think it might have been a century since this dude shouard, he's got moss flying all around his hair and his hairs falling out. This should remind you of the classic moth eaten alopecia that these patients can present with. Oh, fun fact, the white wigs that became so popular in colonial times is rumored to have started due to the rampant syphilis epidemic of the time and the number of men with hair loss as a result. Yeah, the more you know. Well, it looks like this guy hasn't had the best of luck with Beggins today. I mean, maybe you should try and sell that fancy necklace that he's wearing. Is that a necklace of the Venus? I mean, come on, that's gotta be worth more than a handful of crumbs. Anyways, the necklace of Venus is another manifestation of secondary syphilis which presents as hypopigmented macules on the neck. Lastly, these patients may present with mucus patches in the aura of pharynx, so we've got our beggar sticking out his tongue because he is clearly not happy about his earnings for the day. Now, let's move over to cover the findings of tertiary syphilis presented by King Trepanema himself. To remind you of tertiary syphilis, we've placed our recurring three heart just above our king because, clearly, all his subjects love him. Recall that signs of tertiary, aka late syphilis, can be recognized in approximately one-third of untreated patients several months to years after being infected. And look, he's got a bag of gum drops to give our beggar. Ah, he's a generous king, alright. These gum drops are hooked to represent gummus, which are destructive lesions that can affect the skin, bones, liver, and other organs. They commonly present as nodular, ulcerative lesions, often in an arcuate pattern, and lasts for weeks to months and resolve with scarring. Now let's add another heart to his shirt, but this heart should remind you that patients with tertiary syphilis may also present with aortaitis. Lastly, not only is the king loved by all, but is also a genius. He has made his king crown resemble a brain. This is to remind you of neuro syphilis, which may present with a wide array of findings, including tabies dorsalis, parisis, meningitis, and many other neurologic findings. However, one of the most classic findings that's commonly tested is argyl, robets, and pupils, hence why the king is adorned in argyl pattern. Fabulous! Well, that about covers the clinical manifestations. Now, let's quickly cover treatment and some other high-yield facts before we wrap this sketch up. The treatment for syphilis is pretty easy, but just in case you missed all of medical school, let's add some penicillin pepper plants to the sketch anyway to remind you that the treatment for syphilis is penicillin. Always. Even if the patient is allergic, the answer, desensitize, then use penicillin. You should also remember that patients with syphilis have an increased risk for co-infection with HIV, and you should always double check for HIV if you diagnose syphilis. So we've placed our recurring AIDS first aid bag by our king as a subtle reminder. Boy, it is a beautiful night at the Paladin Palace. Look at the stars in the sky. So van go! This should help you remember that the Worth and Stary stain is used to identify spirochetes. The dark nighttime sky and this gazing telescope in the castle window should also help you remember that dark field microscopy is the most specific and most sensitive test used to diagnose primary syphilis. It looks like the king is about to kick back under the shade of this psoriasis site for psorias palm tree and enjoy some chocolate chip cookies. But some nasty ants have completely spoiled them. This is to remind you that the histology of syphilis presents with a psoriasis form hyperplasia with an abundant amount of plasma cells, aka chocolate chip cookies, and also some neutrophils, aka ants in the dermis. Well, that about wraps up this sketch and it should remind you to wrap it up too. You know what I mean. Recall that syphilis is a sexually acquired chronic infection caused by treponema pallidum as shown by our sketch taken place at the Paladin Palace. Remember that treponema is a gram-negative spirochet, which appears as a corkscrew or twisted shape under the microscope as shown by our twisted red welcome banners. Recall that the moat will serve to separate the features of congenital syphilis, which is on the opposite side of the moat, the endemic non-venereal treponema toses within the moat, and the forms of primary, secondary, and tertiary syphilis on the side where the castle is. The recurring number two swan between the baby and kid should remind you that early congenital syphilis occurs in those presenting with symptoms at less than two years of age, and those with late congenital syphilis often present with symptoms after the age of two. The sausage in the baby's hand should help remind you of dactylitis, and the juice dripping from his face should remind you of snuffles, both of which are common manifestations of early congenital syphilis. The liver-esque bib should remind you that liver dysfunction in the form of hepatitis is another feature, and the pain bolts coming from his legs, and the fact that he's not really moving around too much should remind you of pseudo-paralysis of parrot, where the patient does not move their extremities due to intense pain. Recall that the kid on the other side of the swan represents late congenital syphilis. His super-cool yellow-bedazzled, ocular sunglasses should remind you that these patients often present with interstitial caratitis, which can cause corneal ulcers and opacities. Furthermore, the mulberries they challenge on should remind you of mulberry molars, and the stains on his face serve as a hook for regaids, which present as radial, peria, or official scars at sites of previous fishers usually affecting the mouth, nose, eyes, or anus. His peg leg should remind you of pegtith, and his pet horse with the saddle, shin guards, and headphones should remind you of saddle-nose deformity, sabershins, aka anterior tibial bowin, and neural deafness in late congenital syphilis. Also, recall that late congenital syphilis corresponds to tertiary syphilis in an adult, and is not infectious as shown by the don't spread the plague sign with the recurrent three heart on it. Now, let's quickly summarize the forms of endemic non-venereal treponymatosis inside the moat. The shark with the big jaws should remind you of yaws, which is caused by tea-paladum pertinu. To remind you of tea-paladum pertinu, we've placed our pertinu canoe on the edge of the moat. The physical decorations on the canoe facing the children should remind you that the infection most often occurs in warm, tropical climates, and in kids under 15 years of age. The shark taken a large, destructive bite out of the side of the canoe should remind you of the deforming lesions caused by this disease. Our car-shaped red, blue, and black penyata should remind you of pinta. Another form of endemic treponymat found most commonly in central and south America. These patients present with macules and papules with an erythomatis halo commonly on the lower extremities, which may later change color to slate blue, gray, or black, aka the colors of our pinta penyata. Lastly, endemic syphilis aka bejelle is caused by tea-paladum endemicum and often presents as an inconspicuous papule or ulcer in the mouth or on the nipple of breastfeeding women in the primary stage. In the secondary stage, it is similar to venereal syphilis, but mucosal disease predominates. So to remind you of the nipples of breastfeeding women and mucosal lesions, we've placed this super cute bikini top with lips that kiss marks on it, floating in the mouth. Next, let's quickly review the primary, secondary, and tertiary forms of syphilis. Our guard holding up the number one sword with the shank in his groin should remind you of primary syphilis, which presents with a shanker and regional lymphatic enepathy as shown by a recurrent lymphed anapathy earring hanging from his belt. The features of secondary syphilis are shown by the beggar feeding the pesky number two swan. These patients often present with prodromal signs, including fever, malaise, and arthralgia as shown by a beggar totally burning up in the heat and the pain bolts coming from his knees. The breadcrums that he's feeding the swan should remind you of the papula squamous generalized rash, classically with papules and plaques on the palms and soles, and the moss flying around his sparse hair should remind you of the classic alopecia with the moth eaten border. Recall that these patients may also present with hypo pigment and macules on the neck, called the necklace of venus, which our beggar is totally rocking by the way. He's also sticking out his tongue to remind you of mucous patches in the aura of pharynx. King Treponema with the heart over his head will represent the features of tertiary syphilis. The bag of gumdrops that he's holding are hooked to represent gomas, which are destructive lesions that can affect the skin, bones, liver, and other organs. These patients may also present with aortaitis and various neurologic findings as shown by the number three heart on our king's shirt and his big brain looking hat. Lastly, his super stylish argyle print clothing should remind you of argyle robinson pupils. Now let's quickly cover treatment and some other high-yield facts one last time. The treatment for syphilis is always penicillin, so we've placed our penicillin pepper plants in the sketch to remind you. Our recurrent first aid aids bag should remind you that patients with syphilis have an increased risk for co-infection with HIV. The beautiful dark-story sky should help you remember that the warthin story stain is used to identify spire keats, and the gazing telescope in the castle window should also help you remember that dark-fueled microscopy is the most specific and the most sensitive test used to diagnose primary syphilis. Lastly, the histology of syphilis presents with a sore assiform hyperplasia as shown by our site for soreis or isis palm tree, plasma cells, aka chocolate chip cookies, and some neutrophils in the dermis as shown by the ants just totally spoiling these delicious chocolate chip cookies. Well, that about does it for the key features of syphilis. Remember to use protection, and I'll see you next time.
