TRANSCRIPT: Tinea Capitis
============================================================

Hey there, welcome to Tite Caps, or is that like to say T-caps, where the caps are so tight, it will make your head itch. Guys, I think we might need a better slogan. Welcome back, this sketch titled Tite Caps will cover the most common causes and highly testable facts about the dermatophytes that cause tiniacapitis. We've divided the sketch down the center which will serve as a demarcation between fluorescent ectotherics fungi which is on the right and non fluorescent endothorics fungi which is on the left. Let's get started by introducing our store clerk and discussing the tricophyte and species. He's a total bro and clearly loves the T-titans. This T-titans logo should serve to remind you of T-tonserans which is the number one cause of tiniacapitis in the US. So recall the east point into the sign with a recurrent number one phone finger. Now test writers will expect you to know for reasons unbeknownst to me, the other species of tiniacapitis that cause endothorics infections. These include T-rubrum, yawande, gervili, pseudinese and shonlini. We'll help you with this by including a stylish accessory for each one starting with rubrum which will show this hip beanie with a rubrum. We've added some black dots to the beanie because all forms of endothorics cause what's commonly known as black dot tiniac. Use the arthrocanidia and air bubbles within the hair shaft. Now maybe you're not a titan fan, don't worry about it, somebody has to root for the losers so titcaps has you covered with this yal main hat for T-yawande. But if you want something that screams I'm unique, maybe you'd prefer a handmade gourd hat. This gourd hat is for T-gorbili. T-sudinese we've chosen to show with the literal pseudinese flag on a cap because we're a global company. And we care. We're even in fair trade with the pseudinese. Wait, I know, you're a more sophisticated fellow. Maybe you need something that you could wear to the orchestra. Look no farther than this custom beaver skin top hat. See how well it goes with a violin? The top hat with the violin is for T-vialasium. Last among the endothorics is T-shonlini which we've chosen to make with this shoe and put along the central divider because it has a unique feature of occasionally florescuing under wood's lamp. Furthermore, it's the favorite shoe because it's the most common termatophyte to cause a favus on exam. On the right hand side will be the micro sporum species. These are ectotherics and generally floresc under wood's lamp. While the most common cause the tinia capitis in the US is T-tonserans, the most common cause worldwide is M-canus. So let's put a K9 hat next to our clerk to remind you that it is also a number one cause. But if you're watching this video in the US, it's not commonly something you'll encounter. This form tends to be much more inflammatory than its tricophyte and counterpart and to help you remember this, recall this fire sale sign with the K9 hat. The other species you should know are M-jipsium, which is shown by a unique yet definitely in style gypsy hat with feathers and all. The car lover's favorite Audi hat with the four silver rings for M-Aduini and a punk rock furkey hat for M-Farigium. It's legit. Should wear a hat just like this one? And yeah, I own three. You know, while being in touch with popular cultures always a good idea, T-caps knows that you have to respect the innovative artists that brought us this far and their favorite is Picasso. Sure, this painting looks a little distorted, but that's what makes it beautiful. The distorted painting is for our last species, M-Distortum. Now for a little board fodder, do you know why these species glow? It's due to teradine. So let's add a fun teradactyl decoration hanging from the ceiling on the right for teradine. Once but not least, let's cover treatments for tinia capitals. You can choose either grizzio-fulvin or terbenifine, and they've both been shown to be equally effective in children and adults alike. Even though previously it was taught that grizzio-fulvin was better in children, now it may be worth noting that grizzio-fulvin is simply better against micro-sporam species, and terbenifine is better against trichofighten species. Regardless, the key point is that you have to treat for four to six weeks. To recall this, simply remember this greasy microwave oven for grizzio-fulvin, the terbenifine desk fan, the four flag on the left of the desk, and the six golf club held by the statue on the right side of the desk. Now let's top this sketch off with a quick wrap up. This sketch is titled Tite Caps, Discussing Tinia Capitals. On the left are the trichofighten species which cause endothrix or black dot tinia capitals, and do not floresc. On the right are the micro-sporam species which cause ectothrix, tinia capitals, and floresc. The most common cause in the US is the T-tonserence, and is shown by the T-Titans logo that the clerk is pointing to with the number one foam finger. Other species include T-Rubrim with the Rubric's Cube Beanie, T-Uwanda, shown with the Yao main cap, T-Gorvili, shown with the Gord Hat, T-Sudinese, shown by the cap with the Sudanese flag, and T-Vialisium, shown by the classy top hat and violin. Notably, T-Shumini is an endothrix, but can sometimes still floresc. It's shown by the red shoe along the central divider, and remember that it's the most common cause of thavis by recalling this yellow thavis-esque favorite shoe sign. On the right side of the divider you'll see the teradactyl, to remind you that this species floresc due to teradine. The most common cause of tinia capitals worldwide is micro-sporam canis, which is much more inflammatory than trichofighten. Now M-canis is shown by the K9 cap, and you can recall the fire sale to remember that it's much more inflammatory. You should be able to recognize the other ectotheric species, including M-Gypsium, M-Furigium, M-Aduenii, and M-Distortium, which are shown by the Gypsy Hat down low, Fergolicious Hat up top, Audi Hat, and Distorted Art Work respectively. Lastly, recall that treatment can be either grizzio-fulvin or terbenifine, but you have to treat it systematically for 4-6 weeks. Recall the greasy microwave oven for grizzio-fulvin, the desk fan for terbenifine, and the four flag and six golf club for 4-6 weeks. Well, that's all for today, short and sweet. Now get out of here before you lose circulation to that noggin.
