TRANSCRIPT: TNF-Alpha Inhibitors
============================================================

Welcome to the Halloween Party where we will learn about biologics. I hear there's a really scary haunted house out back. Check out this Alpha Teen representing that this graphic will cover the TNF Alpha inhibitors. First off, take a look at this kid flicking a lighter to symbolize infliximab. Is he trying to smoke at the party? He needs to barricade him out. The barricade represents that the brand name for infliximab is re-mecade. Next up, this girl is dressed up as a doll to symbolize Adelaimimab. Notice how she is laughing humorously to represent the brand name Humira. She brought along her friend who is a certified sim character. He represents Certula Zumab, which has the brand name Simzia, hence why he's a certified sim. He's holding a little sim baby to symbolize that there is limited transfer of this medication to the placenta and therefore a decreased herodigenic potential during pregnancy. The next trick or treater is dressed up as a goalie representing Gola Mumab. The brand name for Gola Mumab is Simponi, represented by him singing a symphony. For indications, take a look at the walkway in the middle. Almost all TNF Alpha inhibitors are FDA approved for psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. psoriasis is represented by the psoriatic skater with elbow pads that resemble the scales of psoriasis. His destroyed skateboard symbolizes the destruction of joints in psoriatic arthritis. The lone broken skateboard by the goalie represents that Goli Mumab is only approved for psoriatic arthritis, but not for psoriasis. The tan little girl wearing an emerald dress represents Etanercept and its brand name Enbrel. She has a little girl because Etanercept is approved for pediatric psoriasis for patients older than age four. Oh, that's scary. This knife stabbed or should I say injected into the wall represents adverse effects like injection site reactions. Notice how the knife is closest to the lighter flicking kid and the tan girl. Since influximab and Etanercept most commonly cause injection site reactions, the treatment for this is to change to a new injection site elsewhere on the body. Infusion reactions like nausea, headache, flushing and dysnia can also occur for the medications administered intravenously. This is represented by the nauseous, flushed kid who's out of breath. Chill out, man. No need to be so scared. Check out the sign warning that those who are scared should go slow through the haunted house. This symbolizes that slowing down the infusion rate can help decrease infusion reactions. For those who are really scared, we recommend taking a chill pill, symbolizing that pre-medication with anti-histamines among other medications can also decrease the risk of infusion reactions. Finally, look at the sign showing that this haunted house is going to be epic. This representing that the insubiacase epinephrine may be used as well as systemic corticosteroids hence the epinephrine effect sign. Let's discuss some of the other adverse effects. This sneaky little dog gobbling up this myelin sheath like candy symbolizes the risk of developing various demyelinating diseases like multiple sclerosis, guillain burry syndrome and optic neuritis. So take a look at the neuronal electrical charge around the dog as an additional reminder. While these medications are approved for psoriasis, they can also paradoxically cause psoriasis. This is symbolized by the not-so-friendly looking gang of psoriatic skaters. Check out their thick gloves representing palmopleter postulosus. Connective tissue diseases like lupus or dermatomyocytus with positive anti-nuclear antibodies can also occur from these medications. So take a look at their angry lupus pet wolf and their flaming hoodies representing the flaming muscles of dermatomyocytus. They even have a flaming hose symbolizing the risk of developing vasculitis. Okay, now I see why that other kid was so scared. They have some really creepy decorations here. Check out this Lyme crab representing the increased risk of malignancies, particularly lymphoma. Is that crab holding a liver? This liver represents that hepatosplenic T cell lymphoma has also been reported in patients on TNF alpha inhibitors. This lymphoma is fatal as symbolized by the death skull. Because of the immunosuppression from TNF alpha inhibitors, patients are also at an increased risk of developing tuberculosis, including both primary infections and reactivation. Recall this with the tuberculosis tubers. TNF alpha inhibitors are contraindicated in patients who have an active infection, so screening prior to initiating treatment is critical. Pants are also at increased risk of opportunistic infections like legionella, as shown by the kid dressed up as the captain of this legion of ships. He also has a checklist with him to symbolize Listeria. There is conflicting evidence as to whether TNF alpha inhibitors increase the risk of developing or exacerbating congestive heart failure. So just remember that these medications should be used with caution in patients with CHF. This is particularly the case with infliximab, so notice the CHF deflated heart balloon by the kid flicking the lighter. Uh, yeah, probably shouldn't be smoking if you have CHF. Just saying, kid, this kid who dressed up as a hippo with a pet bee symbolizes the reactivation of hepatitis B. TNF inhibitors are actually thought to be safe in patients with hepatitis C and HIV, which is why we specifically added the B. Uh-oh, looks like the police are here to shut down or should I say neutralize the party. Notice how their tasers are shaped like antibodies. This represents that neutralizing anti-drug antibodies can interfere with the binding activity of biologic agents resulting in decreased efficacy. This is typically not seen with ETAN or CEPT, so notice the TAN girls glow creating a shield protecting her from the antibody tasers. These cops aren't kidding around. They brought a meat stick. This symbolizes that code administration with methotrexate may reduce the rate of antibody formation. Let's wrap up this spooky Halloween party and go over the symbols. First up, the alpha teen represented TNF alpha inhibitors followed by the rebellious kid flicking a lighter symbolizing influximab. The barricade keeping him out represents the brand name Remake. Next we saw the doll representing Adelimimab humorously laughing to symbolize the brand name Humira and her certified SIM friend representing Certalizimab, which has the brand name Symsia with the Simbaby representing decreased risk of teratogenicity. Then came the goalie symbolizing goal and moomab, singing his symphony to represent the brand name Sympony. The TAN girl in an emerald dress represented ETAN or CEPT, which has the brand name N-Brell, hence the emerald dress. Moving on, we noticed the knife injected into the wall symbolizing injection site reactions, especially for influximab and ETAN or CEPT. The nauseous out of breath kid symbolized infusion reactions with the haunted house's slow sign reminding us to slow down infusions to limit these reactions. Pre-medication with anti-histamines can also help, hence the chill pill. Finally, the epic sign symbolized the use of epinephrine in severe cases. We also encountered a sneaky dog munching on myelin candy, symbolizing the risk of demilinating diseases. The gang of not-so-friendly psoriatic skaters highlighted the paradox of psoriasis caused by TNF inhibitors, along with their wolf for lupus and flaming hoodies for dermatomyocytus. The flaming hose symbolized vasculitis. The Lyme Crab clutching a liver warned us of malignancy risks, especially hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma, which is fatal, hence the death skull. The tuberculosis tubers reminded us to screen for infections, while the Legion captain with his checklist stood for opportunistic infections like Legionella and Listeria. The deflated heart balloon near the flicking kid signified the caution needed in CHF patients, especially with influximab. The hippo with a pet bee showed the reactivation of hepatitis B. Lastly, the police with antibody tasers represented neutralizing anti-drug antibodies, which don't affect etanersept as shown by the tan girls' protective glow. And who could forget the meat stick? Symbolizing the co-administration of methotrexate reducing antibody formation? Well, this party may have been shut down, but who's down to speak into the haunted house?
