TRANSCRIPT: Tuberous Sclerosus (FINAL)
============================================================

Welcome to the most totally tubular inner tube pool party of the year. The invite list was like totally exclusive. So you have to introduce yourself to these super rad party goers. In this sketch titled tubular sclerosis inner tube pool party, we'll be covering tubular sclerosis types 1 and 2, which are multi-system diseases with primarily neurocutaneous manifestations. Tubular sclerosis is an autosomal dominant genetic mutation caused by a mutation in either TSC1 or TSC2 genes. The TSC1 gene codes for a protein called hammerton, which is important in cell signaling in the end-door pathway. We will represent hammerton with our first party animal, this chubster who's rocking some kick back hammer pants. He comes through the kick, but he stays for hammer time. I'm sure that he would make MC hammer proud. To remind you that hammerton mutations are seen with type 1, we'll give Mr. Hammer time a one-phome sword to hold. Furthermore, if you recall from our Burt Hog Dubay sketch, we signify M-tore with an M-tore Jeep. In this case, it's his mom's car dropping him off. Some important test fodder are chromosomes where the genes for TSC1 and TSC2 are located. In the case of type 1, it's chromosome 9, so notice that he's also holding a 9 balloon to remind you of this. This little chunk is notorious for needing a little more flotation, so next to him is the custom 2 swan extra air inner tube, which will stand for tubular sclerosis type 2, which is due to mutations in the tubular gene. We won't have a specific hook for this, but I have faith that you can remember it's 2 barin that has mutated into type 2. Again, this protein is also involved in the M-tore pathway. Unlike Hammerton, tubular is found on chromosome 16, so we'll include a 1-phome sword and a 6-golf club near the inner tube in order to remind you of this. Tubular and Hammerton form a complex that inhibits cell transduction of the M-tore pathway, leading to an abnormal regulation of cellular differentiation, proliferation, and migration of affected cell types with the formation of multiple hammer tomas. In this sketch, our pool party goers will represent the cutaneous and other manifestations of tubular sclerosis based on average age of presentation. Let's get started. Our hook for tubular sclerosis is an inner tube and roses, which we will sprinkle throughout the sketch as decorations. Furthermore, the image of a totally tubular party bro should also suffice. Now, what is a party without some confetti? Mr. Hammerton is in full on celebration mode and is covered in some confetti, most notably on his pre-tibial shins. This is to represent the confetti pattern hypopigmented macules and ash leaf macules, which is the most common initial manifestation and often occurs on the pre-tibial shins during infancy or early childhood. To remind you of the age of onset, we've drawn his best friend who is also a baby standing next to him. Notice how the baby has a sweet anatomical heart onesie with what looks like an EKG on the front of it. This must be one of those baby geniuses that they made a movie about. This should remind you of the cardiac rabdomiomas, which are another finding of tubular sclerosis in infancy and early childhood. Notably, cardiac rabdomiomas cause arrhythmias, most notably wolf Parkinson white syndrome, as depicted by the EKG on his onesie. If you totally dumped your cardiology knowledge after intern year, we'll give him a white onesie to remind you of wolf Parkinson white. Ah sweet, the color signifies the word, which is also a color. Maybe I was wrong about this baby being a genius. He seems to have gotten his head stuck in an inner tube. Did you notice that that inner tube is decorated with submarines and pandas and has water dripping from it? This is to remind you of the neurologic findings of cortical tubers, sub-epidemo nodules, and resultant hydrocyphalus respectively. Great Odin's raven, it's hot. Milk was a bad choice. While dancing, the baby slipped on his milk bottle and lost his balance and went kinda seizure-like. We hope the visual of the baby having a seizure-like episode will be enough to remind you of seizures and infantile spasms. But let's add a healthy snack Caesar salad bar on the right as an added hook. The milk bottle is to remind you that the board likes to ask what finding may be seen on cranial imaging. In the case of tuberous sclerosis, it's paraventricular calcifications. And did you notice the spilled milk? It looks kinda like the shape of lateral ventricles. Together, infantile spasms, large number of cortical tubers, and an early onset of seizures or intractable seizures, are associated with the worst prognosis. The number one cause of mortality in tuberous sclerosis is due to complications related to seizures. This is represented by a recurrent number one foam finger, which we'll put on the baby's hand, and have them pointing towards the salad table. Well, be careful as we get close to the swimming pool, guys. Remember, concrete is slippery when wet. This slow slippery when wet sign should help remind you that tuberous sclerosis often resulting developmental delays and mental retardation. Now, let's introduce our next particle, who definitely has the coolest tube by far. This spaceship with plus signs on it is to remind you of the facial adenoma sebaceum, seen in patients with tuberous sclerosis. Also, notice that we've given the kid a bunch of facial papules. To remind you that tuberous sclerosis is on the facial-papule differential diagnosis. It's worth noting that while the splitters among us have given these papules a fancy name adenoma sebaceum are not sebaceous and are actually just angiophibromas. Looks like he's heading for the diving board, but he should probably be careful. Notice how the diving board looks a bit like a tooth and how it's riddled with holes. These holes in the diving board are to represent enamel pits, which are present in over 90% of tuberous sclerosis patients. This flotatious particle doesn't go anywhere without his own unique accessory kidney-satual flotation device. These kidney-shaped flotation devices represent the renal findings in tuberous sclerosis, including renal angiomial lipomas, renal cysts, and renal cell carcinoma. Renal disease, including renal failure, catastrophic hemorrhage within renal angiomial lipoma, is the number two cause of premature death in patients with TSC. So notice that the number two toyswan is next to him. In the background, the groundskeeper seems to be shaving a patch of greenery. Shaving greenery should invoke an image of shagreen patches, which are commonly found in tuberous sclerosis, which also tend to appear during the pre-pubertal stage of the disease. It looks like he needs some caffeine in him to trim all those shrubs, but it looks like he spilled his cafe ole all over his jeans. Hopefully you notice that we've brought back this recurrent hook from the men-modern man sketch for cafe ole spots, which also occur in tuberous sclerosis. If you've seen our men sketch, well, doesn't that groundskeeper look familiar? Oh, look, here's our next teenage party-goer enjoying the pool, and this guy looks a bit like Conan the Barbarian. Well, I hope he's wearing his sunscreen. Anyways, this teenage kid must have gotten the munchies from too much swimming. Good thing that he brought his fiber bars to fill up on. But gross! It looks like he's trying to eat it with his toes, and maybe even gotten crumbs under his toe now? Everyone evacuates the pool! Eating cereal with your toes? Not a good look. This fiber bar between his toes is to represent the peri-ungal fibromas of tuberous sclerosis that classically appear in adolescence. These tumors are commonly called Conan's tumors, hence why we made this character look like Conan the Barbarian. Maybe he's doing it to impress the super hot pool party lifeguard. The hot lifeguard will represent the ocular findings of tuberous sclerosis since they are watching over the whole party for any shenanigans. He'll also represent the features that present in adulthood. This binocular wheeled in lifeguard takes her job seriously. Her bright red binocular-like glasses are our reoccurring theme for ocular findings, and in tuberous sclerosis, the findings are colobomas and retinol facomas, also known as hammer tomas. Half of patients with tuberous sclerosis have ocular findings, but most ocular lesions and TSC patients do not lead to visual loss. Whoa, look at that life jacket! Looks like she's ready to jump in and put a stop to the weirdo who's eaten cereal with his toes. That life jacket is oddly lung-shaped with lots of cysts like bumps on it, right? This is to represent pulmonary lyphangeomyolio-metosis, which occurs in 30 to 40% of women with TSC. These lesions appear as cysts on high-res CT scans. It's important to know that this only occurs in women and may be estrogen mediated, so recall that she's the only girl in the sketch. She's also got one of those fiber bars, but she's eaten it normally with her mouth open. This is to remind you of intraoral fibromas, which are more common in adult patients with TSC. Before we sum up the sketch, let's go over some treatment options for tuberous sclerosis. Whoa, just when I thought this party couldn't get any cooler. Look at this super sick rapper! That's right, he's munching on some fiber bars and rocking a spaceship t-shirt and a ball in PDL propeller hat. Spinning those sick beats and sweet hat will make it hungry. This is a hook to remind you that facial adenoma sebaceum, also known as angiophibromas and TSC, can be treated with topical rapamycin, hence this top rapper and the PDL or blade of lasers shown by his wicked PDL propeller hat. Alright, let's sum up the sketch with a review of our hooks. Tuberous sclerosis is an autosomal dominant condition caused by a mutation in one of two genes. The first is TSC1, which codes for hammerton, as represented by our hammer time chunk wearing his hammer pants. This is on chromosome 9, which is shown with the 9 balloon. The second is TSC2, which codes for tubular, as shown by our tubular two swan tubes. These mutations are found on chromosome 16, as noted by the one sword and six golf club. Mr. Hammer time and his best buddy, the baby, represent the infantile and early childhood manifestations of TSC. The baby, throwing hypo pigmented confetti, represents hypo pigmented confetti macules, and ashleaf macules, which are commonly the first cutaneous symptom and occur on the pre-tibial shins during infancy or early childhood, recalled that most of the confetti is covering Mr. Hammer times shins. This baby's heart onesie should remind you of cardiac rabdo maomas, which cause arrhythmias, most notably wolf parkans and white syndrome, as shown by the EKG and white onesie. The inner tube around his head with subs, pandas, and dripping with water is to remind you of cortical tubers, sub-epidemial nodules, and that these lesions may cause hydrocyphilus. Recall that the baby was dancing in a seizure-like fashion and slipped on the milk bottle and loses his balance to remind you that seizures and infantile spasms are another neurological manifestation of TSC. We've also included a healthy seizure salad bar as an additional reminder. Recall that the milk bottle represents paraventricular calcifications, where the spilled milk is in the shape of the lateral ventricles on an MRI. The number one cause of mortality in tuberous sclerosis is due to complications related to seizures represented by our recurrent number one foam finger on the baby and being pointed at the salad table. The next party gore with the bomb spaceship tube is our hook for adenoma sebaceum, or facial angiophybromas, which are common in pre-pubertal kids with tuberous sclerosis. The tooth-like diving board with holes represents the enamel pits and TSC. The kidney-shaped flotation devices represent the renal findings in tuberous sclerosis, including renal angiomial lopomas, renal cysts, and renal cell carcinoma. Complications of renal disease is the number two cause of premature death, represented by the recurrent number two swan hook. The oddly familiar groundskeeper behind the kid shaving greenery should remind you of shaggreen patches. He spilled his cafeo-lay, which should remind you of recurrent hook for calms, which are also common in TSC. Now, let's move on to the teenage party gore. The teenage guy showing off his unique talent of eating his fiber bars with his toes is a hook to represent peri-ungal fibromas, which commonly appear in adolescents. These are also called conans tumors, which is why he's drawn to resemble conan de barbarian. The lifeguard watching the party will represent the ocular findings with her recurring red goggle hook and her long-shaped jacket to remind you of pulmonary lymphangio-miolio-metosis, which occur in 30 to 40% of women with TSC and appear as cysts on high-res CT scans. The fiber bars she's eating represent intro-oral fibromas that are more common in adult patients. The treatment of angiophibromas and tuberous sclerosis are shown by our rapper with the cool propeller hat and spaceship shirt, eating a fiber bar. This top rapper is to remind you of topical rapamycin, and the propeller hat should serve to remind you of PDL or ablative lasers as another treatment option. Well, I hate to be a party pooper, but I am P-A-R-T-Y pooped, so I'll catch you next time.
