TRANSCRIPT: Cutaneous Tuberculosis
============================================================

tuber or not tuber. That is the question. Now I'm just joking. Today is all about tubers in our sketch titled tuber logo which will cover the prototypic my go bacterial infection my go bacteria tuberculosis. As shown in previous sketches we'll use a tuber, aka potato, anytime that we want you to think of typical my go bacteria and the title of the sketch should help you recall that we'll be discussing features of tuberculosis. Before we get started let's break down how this sketch is mashed up. On the left side we'll discuss the different manifestations that can occur with direct inoculation while the right side of the sketch will be dedicated to the manifestations o into endogenous spread. We'll cover the standard treatment of TB at the end along the center of the sketch. So let's get started. First we'll be discussing the forms of TB that occur via direct inoculation here on the left. Notice that the buffet reads infused with flavor to help you recall that these are due to inoculation and not dissemination. Now that we've established that let's discuss the most common form of cutaneous TB tuberculosis vericosa cutus. Like the name implies the lesions are often for rucous in nature and most commonly occur in individuals who have previously had TB and now have been re-inoculated. When I think of doing something twice, I just can't help but think about twice baked potatoes. Fortunately for me they also happen to be my number one choice and I think they look kind of verucous. Hence why we placed a big ol' verucous pile of them here at the start of the buffet and just in case twice baked potatoes aren't your number one spud. Well we included a number one foam finger sticker decoration below the tater plate to remind you that this is the number one most common form of cutaneous TB. And you know what? As an added bonus try to use it to recall that these lesions are often on the hands. Now as scrumptious as twice baked taters are, don't fill up because I hear they've got some delicious fries. That is until this little munchkin decided he'd pour ketchup all over the entire plate. We've depicted this plate of fries covered in red ketchup to represent a tuberculosis shanker which presents as an ulcerated red papule. Now I know it's painful to watch such a beautiful mound of deliciousness be ruined but like this kid's shirt reads, no pain, no gain. Oh and speaking of no pain despite being an ulcerated lesion tuberculosis shankers tend to be painless which can serve as a useful clue on a test. It is worth noting but not explicitly shown that unlike tuberculosis verucose acutus shankers typically occur in someone who is not then previously infected and therefore have no immunity. As a result these lesions are more likely than tuberculosis verucose acutus to spread to lymph nodes. Also it's worth keeping in mind that syphilitic shankers are also painless and like syphilitic shankers TB shankers generally take two to four weeks after exposure to incubate. I was hoping to take some fries home with me but this dummy ruined them all. Oh and speaking of takeout someone forgot there's next to the number four flag. This takeout wrapped in foil like a fancy twoswan and next to the four flag is to remind you of the typical two to four week incubation time. Now after you've finished up the main tater course head on over to the right and get some dessert. Before we check what's on the buffet note that the forms that result from contiguous spread will be towards the foreground and as you move down the buffet this changes to forms resulting from hematogenous spread. You know I used to think that a potato restaurant might be bland but like this lady I would scarf down some sweet potato pie. We've depicted this woman wearing a scarf to remind you of scrofula derma which is a perulent form of TB affecting the skin as a result of direct contiguous spread from an underlying infection. A scarf just happens to be perfect because the most common sight of underlying infection just happens to be the cervical lymph nodes. In light of recent events it looks like tuberloca has stepped up their reminders about hand hygiene. That's right you better wash them. Recall that the wash your hand sign is a hook for immunocompromised and in this case because patients with scrofula derma generally have low immunity for one reason or another be it HIV primary immunodeficiency poor nutrition extremes of age etc. Oh now she's got the right idea. Spread some wolf's famous apple jelly on those taters and pie. Yeah in case you haven't tried it apple jelly or apple butter because I'm not really sure what the difference is is amazing on sweet potato pie and from what they've been saying wolf's brand just happens to be the best. Why wolf's? Well because the second form of the cutaneous TB that results from spread of endogenous infection is lupus vulgaris. Oh sidebar there's a bunch of lupus and perneo terms and diagnoses to confuse you but I think that the wolf here will be helpful for you to recall that lupus vulgaris means TB. However I also think it's helpful to know that vulgaris simply means common. When these conditions were being named and described TB happened to be the most common cause of facial lesions appearing like this and it's the name lupus vulgaris. We added the wolf logo to apple jelly specifically because like sarcoidosis lupus vulgaris will also have an apple jelly color on dioscopy. Oh man just look at those sweet potato pies. These yummy pies are here to remind you of tuberculosis gummies which result from hematogenous dissemination and clinically may mimic scroffula dharma with ulceration, drainage and predeliction for immunocompromised patients. Take a look at that drainage from the pies now that's how you know they're done right. Also recall that the drainage is to remind you of the drainage that is characteristic of delusions. Perhaps your wantons add a little color to your plate though. And don't worry just follow the man dressed in his blue navy uniform. By the way these are referred to as blue berries by the sailors themselves. This military man and his blue bear uniform will represent miliary TB which again results from hematogenous dissemination and manifests with widespread blue and red-crusted papules. I think the blue bear uniform is probably good enough to recall this but just in case we've added some berries inside of these oddly lung-shaped heating trays. Why lung-shaped? Well because miliary TB generally begins in the lungs before disseminating. Last but not least let's discuss or official tuberculosis which is a result of a poorly controlled infection plus direct inoculation. Because it's a mixture of the two methods but is still considered spread of endogenous infection we've included the hook with a mouthful of buttery, runny potatoes on the right. But notice that it isn't contiguous with the buffet. Again this is because unlike other endogenous forms or official TB results from auto-enoculation and not direct or hematologic dissemination. Clinically it presents close to the mouth with all-cerated lesions and perulent drainage. I hope the mouth's stuffed with potatoes and butter running all over will be an adequate hook for this. Now for all forms of TB the first line therapy is generally the tried and true ripe therapy. If you can't remember all the way back to medical school ripe stands for refampin, isonized, pyrazinamide and a thambutal. But we'll show the hooks here in the center. With dermed amonics we'll use a knight like this one for isonized and don't you dare try to smuggle his yams out of here without pain. He's packing a refamp and rifle. I mean who could blame him? They probably spent hours building that potato pyrazinamide pyramid. Alright I'll be the first to admit we struggled with a thambutal. The hook goes reposed several times was but well you get the idea. And as memorable as that was I just couldn't find a way to work that into a potato sketch. Instead we chose a ham for a thambutal to add a little protein to this carb filled meal. Now let's wrap this sketch up in foil and hit the road. This sketch covers the various manifestations of cutaneous tuberculosis and is divided into three areas. Forms resulting from direct inoculation on the left buffet which reads infused with flavor, forms resulting from endogenous dissemination on the right and treatment in the center. The most common form of TB due to direct inoculation is TB varicosa cutus which occurs in individuals who've been previously exposed. Hence the twice baked potatoes with the number one foam finger point into them. Clinically it presents as a varucus papule like the varucus pile of twice baked potatoes. TB shanker is represented by the ulcer look and pile of fries covered in ketchup. This usually results in people who have never been exposed and takes two to four weeks to incubate. That's why we have the two swan and four flag. Recall that the shanker is painless as shown by the shirt that reads no pain, no gain. On the right we've shown forms that result from endogenous spread. At the near end our forms result in from continuous spread while miliary TB and TB gummas result from hematogenous spread. The woman with the scarf represents scruffy larderma which occurs in immunocompromised patients as a result of spread from underlying lymph nodes to the skin. Most commonly the cervical region which is why the scarf just happens to fit perfectly given the scarf is wrapped around her neck. Lupus vulgaris is shown by the wolf's apple butter because it manifests with red brown papules and plaques on the face and shows an apple butter color on dioscopy. Tuberculosis gummas are shown by the yummy sweet potato pie, result from hematogenous spread and manifests with ulcerating deep nodules with perulent drainage, much like the drainage from the pies. Miliary TB is also a manifestation of hematogenous spread and is shown by the military guy wearing his blueberry navy uniform. It manifests with disseminated blue and red papules. The primary infection is generally located in the lungs which is why we shown the servant trays as being lung shaped. Or official TB is generally considered to be a result of endogenous infection but it's due to auto-annoculation of someone with poorly controlled TB and manifests with draining or official lesions near the mouth, much like the buttery drainage coming from the sign with a mouthful of potatoes. In the center of the sketch we show the treatment and if you recall from medical school the treatment of TB is ripe combination therapy. However, if you don't recall, ripe stands for refampin, isonizedide, pyrazinamide and a thambutal. These are shown by the refampin rifle, isonizedide night, pyrazinamide pyramid of potatoes and the f-ham butal ham respectively. Well, I hope these spuds weren't duds and if like the content, hey guys, keep the request common and share darm nomonics with your friends on social media. All right, I'll catch you next time.
