TRANSCRIPT: Urticarial Vasculitis
============================================================

Can you feel it? The love is in the air here at the UV Bug Motel. I mean, love bug Motel. The love bug sign should be somewhat known to you from our first sketch, summarizing small vessel vasculitis, where we used love bugs to represent urticarial vasculitis. In this sketch, the big love bug sign, this room is a hook to remind you that the entire sketch is dealing with urticarial vasculitis. Urticarial vasculitis is an inflammation of the small blood vessels. It comes in two major forms, hypocompliment temic, or normal complement temic. We'll abbreviate these HUV and NUV. You might notice that this isn't depicted in the sketch, but that's because all you really need to know is that a normal complement is often skin limited and idiopathic, while a low complement means that you should typically look for an underlying systemic disease. The rest of the sketch will be broken down into three main areas. The left-hand side of the sketch represents the common inciting factors in patient characteristics. The treatments will be represented roughly in the center of the sketch. The signs' assumptions will be shown by two characters in the upper right-hand side. So let's get started by introducing our love bugs, who are out for romantic, not on the town. What better restaurant to eat at than the hungry hippo? And if you recall from previous sketches, the hippos are a recurring symbol for viral hepatitis. You may come for the prices, but I promise you're going to stay for the romantic chaz flute. The woman outside playing the jazz flute should remind you of fluoxetine. You'll notice how she's brought her loving pet wolf dog to keep her company. The wolves are recurring symbol for lupus, and in this sketch should remind you that urinary carol vasculitis can be seen in many connected tissue diseases, but especially lupus. Again, if urinary carol vasculitis arises in the setting of systemic disease, you'll often have a low complement level. Before the test, it's also worth knowing that in addition to low complement, 100% of patients with hypokomplementomic urinary carol vasculitis are positive anti-C1Q antibodies, while another 50% will have a positive A&A. So to help you remember anti-C1Q and A&A, take a look at the specials that they've got going on right now. One cent, Cuervo Spritzers, and 50% off? That's just crazy. So crazy, it just might work. The ones in Cuervo Spritzers should remind you of C1Q. Take a closer look at the sign over the door. The way it's draped kind of makes it look like a banana. The banana will be a recurring symbol for A&A. Like lupus, urinary carol vasculitis is most commonly seen in women over the age of 50. And what a coincidence. Tonight just happens to be ladies night here at the hungry hippo, and ladies get 50% off. This should remind you it's most common in women over 50. Other systemic diseases associated with urinary carol vasculitis include lymphoma and monoclonal gamopathy. So we've worked our recurring lymphoma limes into the sketch over by our Cuervo Spritzers for lime phoma. And let's remind the customers how deliciosa they are by adding this mmmm slogan. For the experienced viewer, you can probably guess that this stands for monoclonal IgM apathy. And it's worth remembering that when urinary carol vasculitis occurs in the setting of IgM gamopathy, this is called schnitzler syndrome. I like to think, oh, schnit, I've got cancer. I wonder why they're having such crazy deals though. Is it because they're parking lots blocked off? The only call from previous sketches that are recurring symbol for inseds is a sad face. And what's more sad than not being of the park at your favorite restaurant? So we've added this no parking sign with an insad sad face on it. To remind you of inseds, there are several other drugs you should know that cause urinary carol vasculitis. Semedadine, potassium iodide, metatrexate, antinefalphinehypers. So we've added this pothole here with a c-mit mix or next to it for cementedine. That explains why there's no parking. Now let's add a construction worker here on the right. Notice how he suspiciously looks like Luigi? That's because another name for potassium iodine is lugal. And this Luigi looking guy will be recurring hook for lugal. Doesn't really look like he's doing much. I'm sure if they hide this guy's brother, the whole would probably be fixed by now. Take a little closer look at him. You see his hip retrophone? Pun intended. The cell phone with his centimus shaped like the Greek letter alpha is our recurring symbol for teen f-alphinehypers. Have you ever wondered what Yoshi was supposed to be in those games? I think he's probably a dinosaur and with those w-little arms, probably a T-rex. So take a look at our worker's lunch bag. It's a T-rex thing that just happens to look like a beloved dinosaur. That's the remind you of metatrexate. Now let's talk about the symptoms of urticarial vasculitis. Unlike run of the mill urticaria, Luigi and seeing an urticarial vasculitis are present for more than 24 hours. Just like our motel here which is open for 24 hours a day. Furthermore, lesions are not typically so peridic as they are painful and patients often describe the pain as stinging or burning. Good god man. Look at this guy getting attacked by bees. Imagine that that's probably what this feels like. A bunch of bees swarming and stinging all over. When these lesions do resolve, they often lead behind residual hyperpigmentation. So as a bonus, we've added some hyperpigmented staining below our love bug sign. In addition to the utaneous stinging and burning wheels that last over 24 hours, patients often have systemic symptoms. This manifests in a number of different ways, including arthralias, GI distress, pulmonary involvement, re-envolvement, and even ocular findings such as uviitis, conjunctivitis, or iritis. To help you remember these general features, check out this poor guy on the ground. I'm really starting to question if the once inquire about spritzers were a good idea, because it looks like this guy probably had a few too many. He's fallen on the ground and obviously hurt his knee. But again, in case that's not obvious, we'll add our pain bolts here by his knee. He's also vomiting and looks like he fell in another one of those pesky mud buttles. Or maybe a poo bottle. This mud pile should remind you of diarrhea. At least he's remembered to bring his inhaler in case of emergency, but it probably won't do him much good here. The inhaler will be a recurring symbol for respiratory distress. Lastly, our recurring symbol for ocular involvement will be a character wearing red sunglasses or binoculars. So we've put some red sunglasses on the guy getting attacked by bees. You know, I'm not so sure if eating at the hunger hippo is a great idea, but maybe if we shift our focus to the center of the screen to talk about treatment options, we'll find something else. Most urinary carol vasculitis can be managed with just supportive measures such as antihistamines, oral steroids, and endomethocin. If you're watching this video and interested in dermatology, you probably already know to give antihistamines to just about everyone. But to help you remember Indymethicin, I want you to focus on our male love bug in the car. Who's he remind you of with that dashing olive green hat and hair scented and forward-esque smoldering intensity? What about if we add this bullwhip? Still nothing? Fine. Just remember that the car is from Indiana. We've put Indiana on the license plate for you. And notice how his bullwhip is kind of wrapping around something? These are dear old friend the hydrocooler back in another sketch. This is to remind you that Indymethocin and steroids are both first-line measures. Second-line measures include the same oral medications that were covered in the initial small vessel vasculitis sketch. And luckily for this couple, there's some tasty, authentic street chargrilled dimsum. The coal and the dimsum are occurring symbols for culture scene and dap sum. Two drugs commonly used to treat various forms of vasculitis. Another carial vasculitis being one of them. In severe cases, however, more intensive management may be needed. And we'll show these treatments here in the back. This classy karaoke bar titled Mike's karaoke and cooler. The microphone will be our current symbol for micrphenolate. And again, a cooler should remind you of steroids. In severe cases, though, you should give high-dose steroids and that's typically given IV. So let's draw a mega-cooler eyes chest here by the bar. Alternate therapies for severe cases include Rituximab or IVIG. So we'll include our recurring IVIG-IV growing up beside the building and have this super classy valet out in front in a Rituxant Tux. Let's sum this sketch up. Urinary carial vasculitis, as shown by our lovebug motel, comes with two forms. Normal complementemic and hypocomplumatemic. Low complement is often indicated that there is a systemic ideology that you need to identify. We've shown the different underlying triggers of urinary carial vasculitis on the left hand side of the sketch. Notably, connective tissue diseases such as lupus, which we've shown with our wolf, slash dog, sitting next to our street performer. The most common people to get urinary carial vasculitis are women over 50, which is the same population that develops connective tissue diseases. So remember our ladies' night sign. Furthermore, because of this association, remember that if a patient has low complement, you should check their A and A because one half of them will be positive. Remember the one half off A and A banana banner. And all of the patients with low complement will have anti-C1Q antibodies. So remember our one-sync Guerva spritzer sign. Also to some pennies in the hats next to our street performer, we may use this as a recurring symbol in future sketches. Other notable causes of vasculitis include viral hepatitis, shown by the restaurant's hepatitis hungry hippo sign, one of clonal IgM Gamopathy, which is also known as Schnitzler syndrome, where it occurs with urinary carial vasculitis, shown by the, um, slogan, and lymphoma, shown with our lymphoma limes by the margaritas. There are also numerous medications that can cause urinary carial vasculitis. So remember that the hungry hippo has such great deals because the construction in the parking line has really hurt its business. The Cmit mixture should remind you of some editing. And our friendly Italian construction worker should remind you of Lugal or Patassimaeidide. Remember that he's brought his own lunch bag with a dino Yoshi T-Rex thing on it from metatrixate, and that his T-Nep Alpha and Tynas cell phone is on his hip. The symptoms of urinary carial vasculitis are shown with our two characters at the top right. Our guy on the ground who had too much to drink and fell in the mud hurting his knee should remind you of GI distress and arthralgeus. The kidney satchel he's wearing should remind you of glomerulina foritis or renal involvement and his inhaler should remind you of pulmonary involvement. The guy being swarmed by bees should remind you that the lesions of urinary carial vasculitis often sting and burn and they last longer than 24 hours. So remember that the hotel sign says open 24 hours. The cool red sunglasses he's rocking should remind you that they can also get ocular involvement in the form of UVitis, iritis, or conjunctivitis. Treatment of urinary carial vasculitis is usually supported with indimethasins, steroids and histamines. So remember Indiana and his car from Indiana and how his bullwips wrapping around the hydrocooler. In more serious cases, second mind options include dapsone and coltocene. So remember our street food grill guy serving coltocene, cold, grilled, dapsone dim sum. That's a tongue twister I dare you to try saying. Lastly, in severe cases patients need more intense immunosuppression. You can choose between microfinalate and steroids, Mike's karaoke and cooler bar, IVIG or IVIG IV on the wall, or a tuxumap or fancy valet and a tux. Well, I sincerely hope you love this sketch. But if not, check out our next sketch to learn about your theme elevated diutinum, as well as hemorrhagicodema bimpency.
