TRANSCRIPT: Waardenburg and Piebaldism
============================================================

I'm not sure if this applies to every 90s kid, but I have been wonder, wonder, wonder, rain, what's in a wonder ball? For about 25 years. Unfortunately, it looks like that's not going to change, but we might just learn what's in a wonder burger. Welcome back. In this sketch titled What's in a Wonder Burger, we'll be continuing our coverage of Silver Hair Syndrome, a group of genetic disorders that all share the cutaneous finding of silver hair. Specifically, we'll be covering Vardinburg Syndrome's Types 1-4 and Pibaldism, which all share a common characteristic of a white forelock, which you'll notice that each character in the sketch has. You may have noticed that I pronounced it Vardinburg, rather than the typical American way of Wardenburg. That's because the disease was named after Petrus, Johannes of Vardinburg, who described it in 1951. Either pronunciation is technically correct, so feel free to keep pronouncing it your way. And that concludes your freebie history lesson. Now let's get back to the medical stuff. To set the scene, this sketch takes place in a mall food court, where all the cool kids go to hang out. Due to the incredible assortment of food ranging from wonder burgers to pies, our hook to remind you of Vardinburgs will be this wonder burger, and you'll notice the name of the restaurant here on the bench. Vardinburg syndromes are a group of inherited disorders of neural crest development. Recall that the melanocytes are derived from the neural crest, which results in defects of the melanocytes in the skin, eyes, streovascularis, and cochlea. As we go through this sketch, try to pay attention to the findings associated with the specific types, but note that polias or white forelock, deafness, heterochromia irides, and dystopia canthoram are shared between most of the subtypes with minor exceptions. Before we dive into the scene, let me explain how we've grouped these disorders and chosen to organize the characters to reflect this. There are four types of Vardinburg syndrome, types 1 through 4. Each character in the sketch will have a tattoo with our reoccurring hooks for 1, 2, 3, or 4 in order to remind you which one they are. But if you walk through the sketch in the order that we introduce the characters, then it shouldn't be too hard to remember. Types 1 and 3 are the most similar with regards to mutations and presentation. Types 1 and 4 share almost all of their cutaneous features, but the mutations differ. Additionally, type 4 has systemic findings. To signify this in the sketch, the characters for types 1 and 3 will be positioned closest together. Type 2 will be on the right hand side, and type 4 is more on its own towards the center of the sketch. Pipalism will be on the left side at its own table. Ah, poor guy, I know that feel bro. With that in mind, let's introduce our first character, who we'll call Hank. There's no special reason, he just looks like a Hank. He will represent Vardemberg Syndrome Type 1. We'll add our recurrent one sword in the form of a sweet tattoo on Hank's arm. Vardemberg Type 1 is due to autosomal dominant mutations in Pax 3, short for paired box transcription factor. Regardless of the type of Vardemberg Syndrome, the facial dysmorphism seems to indicate that the genes responsible play a role in fetal development. We've chosen to represent Pax 3 with this delicious snack packs pudding cup, and the recurring heart 3 on his hand. Despite his tough outward appearance, Hank is just like this pudding, a real softy on the inside. The key clinical features of Vardemberg Type 1 include poliosis, shown with our white forelock, hypertellerism with a unibrow, and sensory neural deafness. For hypertellerism, we've brought back the recurring ocular involvement red glasses, but we've chosen to make these a little extra wide set in order to remind you of hypertellerism. Furthermore, the nasal bridge of the glasses is prominent and meant to stand out to remind you that these patients often have a unibrow, a unique feature in Type 1. Note the fancy name for this medial eyebrow hyperplasia is synophorus. In dermed amonics, when we want you to think a sensory neural deafness, we use the hook over ear headphones, and in true teenage fashion, Hank is wearing his headphones despite being in the company of friends. Our next character represents Vardemberg Syndrome Type 2. I'll call him Tyler because Tippi Kuhnou and Tyler too is forever burned into my brain from elementary school. Oh shoot, you're still here. We have chosen to draw him on the right hand side of the sketch to remind you that the mutation and clinical features seen in Type 2 are slightly different than the other forms of Vardemberg Syndrome, namely, it lacks dystopia canthorom. Things that we've added are recurring too duck as his tattoo to reinforce that this is Type 2. Unlike Type 1 and 3, the ocular find-in in Type 2 is most commonly heterochromia, which we've chosen to show with a monocle on a single eye. WS2 is most commonly due to autosomal dominant mutations in microapthalmia associated transcription factor or MITF, which encodes a helix loop helix, Lucine zipper transcription factor. But the only reason to remember that factoid is if you want to impress a hot date. When I see MITF, I always think of mittens. Because of this, we've chosen to give Tyler to a red mittens to wear on his right hand. Though it's not super high yield, it's worth taking a moment to mention that the autosomal recessive mutation of myth is seen in a rare disorder called teatsis syndrome. Patients with these mutations have diffuse pigment dilution, deafness, and hypoplasia of eyebrows, but they don't have any other significant ocular findings. To remind you of teatsis syndrome, we're called at Tyler's creepily staring over his shoulder at this lingerie model, with stars over her... Alright, you get the idea. Anyways, remember that she's rocking the same red over ear headphones, but she's not wearing any glasses and has an almost monolisa-like face, lacking eyebrows, to help recall the features of teatsis syndrome. This commonly, WS type 2 is due to mutations in SNA2, which serves as a transcription factor crucial for melanocyte development. This isn't often tested, but we've included a snail on the table that has the shape of a two for those of you with bandwidth to remember this. But let's keep going. Let's talk about WS type 3, which presents almost identically to type 1 with poliosis, sensory neural deafness, and hyper-telorism. But unlike type 1, patients with type 3 may also have associated limb abnormalities. To represent this, we've drawn our third character across the table from Hank, our type 1 character, and given him adorable 3 heart tattoo. Take a look at those claws. He looks like he would have no problem clawing open a snack packs with those bad boys. We've made his hands look like lobster claws to remind you of the limb defects seen in patients with WS-3, specifically sendactually. We've also added another snack packs to remind you that like type 1, type 3 is also due to mutations in Pax III. The last form of Vardemberg syndrome is type 4, also known as Shah Vardemberg syndrome. Like types 1 and 3, type 4 also has poliosis and deafness, but rarely has dystopia can't thorium or wide eyes. We've put our recurring 4 flag sail as a sailboat tattoo on the arm to remind you that this character is representative of type 4. The most testable mutation is SOX-10, which we will show literally by having him wear SOX and a 1 sword zero crown on his hip for SOX-10. Less notable is the mutation in EDN-3 or EDN-R, which are the end of feelin' 3 and its receptor respectively. Though not as high yield, we've chosen to include hooks for these in the form of this seductively named Longchiré shop, Eden's receptacle. Notice how the flower decoration in the window has recurring 3 hearts on it for EDN-3. The defining feature of WS-4 is the development of her sprung disease, also known as A ganglionic mega-colon, which we've chosen to show with this dad's stylish colon fanny pack. Boy, the 90s were a special time. Last but not least, let's talk about pie-balldism, which we'll show with this little kid all by himself enjoying some delicious pie. Pie-balldism is due to a mutation in sea-kit, which is a member of the tyrosine kinase family of proteins and functions as a proto-oncogene. Under normal circumstances, this protein is found on the surface of melanocytes, which accounts for the features associated with this condition. At Dermnomonix, we'll use a Kit Kat anytime we want you to remember Sea Kit, and we've placed a Kit Kat bar on the table in front of this little chunk in the sketch. Note that sea-kit mutations are also characteristic of acryl melanomas, a fact that's frequently tested. If you've seen our Skit Man vs. Mass, you may also recall that sea-kit mutations are also responsible for cutaneous mastocytosis. A less common cause of pie-balldism is mutation in SNAI2, so we've included another snail on the table. Pie-balldism again features a white forelock, evident by the character's white forelock, and associated leukoderma favoring an anterior scalp, trunk, mid-extremities, and central forehead. Though the white forelock is most characteristic in present and 80-90% of cases, its absence does not exclude the diagnosis. Like WS type 2, pie-balldism often has associated heterochromia, and we've again included a single monocle to help you remember this. Because of the significant overlap in clinical features, you should exclude a diagnosis of Vardemberg syndrome any time you're considering the diagnosis of pie-balldism. Work up for this should include an auditory evaluation to rule out sensory neural deafness. Now let's wrap this sketch up with a quick review of the hooks. At the table on the right, the characters represent Vardemberg syndrome's types 1 through 3. Type 1 is shown with the character Hank, with a 1-sword tattoo on his arm, and due to a mutation in Pax 3, a snack pack. Clinically these patients have sensory neural deafness, poliosis, pigment dilution, and synophorosum, shown by over-ear headphones, white forelock, and glasses with prominent nasal bridge. Type 2 is shown on the right with Tyler, who has our recurrent 2-swan tattoo on his arm, and is due to mutations in MITF or SNAI2, the Redminton, and the Snail. Clinical manifestations include sensory neural deafness, poliosis, and heterochromia, the over-ear headphones, white forelock, and single monocle. When inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, mutations in MITF result in teats syndrome, shown by our lingerie model. Type 3 is shown with a character facing away from us, and is essentially the same as Type 1, since it is also due to mutations in Pax 3. However, you should know that Type 3 is associated with limb defects, specifically, sendactually, or lobster claw deformity. Recall that he is shown in close proximity to Type 1, has our Pax snack pack, over-ear headphones, and a white forelock. However, he also has funky lobster hands. Type 4 is unique due to the presence of systemic features and different underlying etiology. Specifically, Type 4 is due to mutations in SOX10, EDN3, or EDNR, and carries a risk of developing A ganglionic mechocolon. We've placed this character standing away from the table to remind you that it's unique, and drawn a 4-sale-boat tattoo on his arm. All these details by remembering his SOX, with one sword and zero crown, the name of the sword EDNR, and that sweet colon fanny pack, which by the way, he is totally pulling off. Lastly, Paiwaldism is shown on the left-hand side, with the kid EDN Pai at his own table. This is due to mutations in C kit or SN2, the Kit Kat and the SNOW. Cutenius features are the same as WS Type 2, so he has been drawn with a white forelock, a heterochromia monocle, but Paiwaldism is not associated with deafness, so recall that he is not wearing headphones. Well that about sums it up. Don't forget to test your knowledge and reinforce your retention by taking the quiz and following along with the coloring page. I'll catch you next time.
