TRANSCRIPT: Xeroderma Pigmentosum
============================================================

Welcome to the XPRcade. XP stands for Zero Derma Pigmentosum. The sign that says XPRcade represents that Zero Derma Pigmentosum is due to mutations in genes that encode proteins critical in the nucleotide-excision repair pathway. In this arcade we have all kinds of different games. There's video games and even audio games. This represents the commonly mutated genes with audio representing XPA since audio starts with the letter A, video for XPV, since video starts with V, and lastly games for XPG. There are many different mutations that can be involved in Zero Derma Pigmentosum and different mutations can correspond to different subtypes or complementation groups. In the variant subtype XPV, the post replication repair pathway is abnormal and this is shown by the postal delivery man who is here to make repairs, hence his tools. This is due to a mutation in the gene encoding for DNA polymerase new. This is shown by the repair man's receipt printer, which is printing out a long receipt, kind of like how DNA polymerase prints out DNA. Effected individuals can have increased sensitivity to UV induced skin damage as symbolized by this young gamer with a pretty nasty sunburn. Looks like he got burned by this repair man's flashlight. This represents that skin damage is caused by abnormalities in DNA repair pathways, like recognition of damaged DNA, unwinding of DNA by helicopters, and incision and removal of damaged DNA by endonucleases. Different mutations in the XPG's can lead to different phenotypes and overlap syndromes. XPB, XPD, and XPG are associated with XP Cocaine overlap syndrome. You can remember these by taking a look at the police department who is watching over the arcade. That's police department for XPD. They are eating peanut butter to remind you of XPB. Watching over the arcade? More like watching a PG movie. This symbolizes XPG. To remind you that they are associated with XP Cocaine overlap syndrome, we added this Cocaine Cocatoo. In this syndrome, patients possess signs of both XP, including skin cancers as shown by the cancer crab and lentigines, as shown by the can of lentils, as well as features of Cocaine syndrome, like retinal degeneration shown by this broken police cam that can't see anymore. Basil ganglia calcification can also be present and is shown by this video game controller with palatified milk on it. We used a controller because controller's control movement, kind of like the basil ganglia. XPB and XPD are also associated with tri-cothyodystrophy, which can lead to a tiger tail pattern on the hair due to the hair being deficient in sulfur. To symbolize this, we added a tiger tail to this police officer, eating peanut butter, to help you remember that it is specifically associated with XPD and XPB, but not XPG. Interesting uniform officer. Typically, cutaneous manifestations appear after six months with development of persistent erythema, scaling, and effilides on sun-exposed areas, followed by eventual poikairo-derma. Essentially, you have severe actinic damage at a much younger age, as well as the consequences of severe actinic damage that come along with it, like skin cancers. The increased risk of cutaneous malignancy is 1,000 fold in patients younger than 20, which is why this arcade machine shows a 1,000 high score right under the cancer crab. This gamer might have had too much to drink at the arcade bar. These confusion question marks represent developmental delays and intellectual impairment. Neurological manifestations can also be present. Depot reflexia may also be present as shown by the dropped reflex hammer, and the dizzy stars above his head symbolize attack. These findings occur in 20 to 30% of XP patients, especially XPA and XPD groups, hence the proximity to the XPA audio gamer and the XPD police department. Notice how XPV is far away as this group has no neurologic complications. Finally, there is a rare XP phenotype with severe neurologic deficits called disanctis chachyony, symbolized by the tank game. That's tank for desanctis. Notice the neurologic electric shocks around the tank representing neurologic deficits. Let's sum up this graphic. The XP arcade represents zero-derma pigmentosum, or XP, and mutations in genes involved in the nucleotide excision repair pathway are the key to scoring big. The mutations are represented by a variety of games. We have audio for XPA, video for XPV, and games for XPG. The postal repairman with his printer symbolizes post-replication repair defects in XPV, caused by a mutation in DNA polymerase new. Effected patients are sensitive to UV damage represented by the sunburned gamer who got burned by the repairman's flashlight. XP can also have a few special variants like XPB, XPD, and XPG. These are linked to XP caucane overlaps syndrome. The police department symbolizes XPD and they're watching a PG-rated movie to represent XPG. They're also eating peanut butter to symbolize XPB. The caucane caucato symbolizes the overlap with caucane syndrome. Finally, the cancer crab and the can of lentils highlight the XP features of skin cancer and lentigines. Caucane syndrome features are represented by the broken police cam for retinal degeneration and the calcified video game controller representing basal ganglia calcification. The police officer sporting a tiger tail reminds us of tricothyodistrophy, which is specifically associated with XPB and XPD, hence its proximity to the police and eating peanut butter. The arcade high score of 1000 reminds us that the risk of cutaneous malignancies is 1000 times higher in XP patients under 20. Cognitive effects are represented by confusion question marks floating around the gamer, showing developmental delays in intellectual impairment, while a dropped reflex hammer and dizzy stars symbolize hyporeflexia and ataxia, which are seen in 20 to 30% of patients, especially in the XPA and XPD groups. That's why he's by the audio game and the police department. The rare disanctus caucane syndrome is symbolized by the tank game with neurologic electric shocks representing severe neurologic deficits. Well, that does it for XP. When the XP arcade, it's all fun and games until someone brings out the tiger tail. Then it's even more fun and games. Alright, on that note, I'm heading out of here.
